= Mailing List =
The best place to talk about Git and get questions answered is usually the mailing list. You don't even need to be subscribed to post, just send an email to:
* git@vger.kernel.org

You can find more official information about the mailing list here:
* http://vger.kernel.org/vger-lists.html#git

The list volume is around 100 posts per day, to subscribe send an email to:
* majordomo@vger.kernel.org
With an empty subject line and the words "subscribe git" in the message body.

= Mailing List Archives =
There are several sites that archive all of the mailing list traffic so that you can search for discussions that have happened in the past:

* [[http://dir.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git|Gmane archive]], with web interface using [[http://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git|frames]], [[http://blog.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git|blog-like interface]], [[nntp://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git|NNTP interface]] (Usenet interface) and [[http://rss.gmane.org/topics/excerpts/gmane.comp.version-control.git|RSS feeds]].
* [[http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=git|Git mailing list archive at MARC]], Mailing list ARChives, with search.
* [[http://www.gelato.unsw.edu.au/archives/git/|Alternate Australian archive]] (<code><nowiki>www.gelato.unsw.edu.au</nowiki></code>) (last updated Feb 2007).
* [[http://www.spinics.net/lists/git/|spinics.net archive]] (least used)
* [[http://www.mail-archive.com/git@vger.kernel.org/|mail-archive]] of git@vger.kernel.org (last updated Sep 2005).
* [[http://lists.zerezo.com/git/|lists.zerezo.com archive]]

You can read ongoing threads without subscribing via GMane news (Usenet) gateway:
* nntp://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git

You can read (selected) threads using RSS feeds
* From [[http://dir.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git|GMane archive]] you can read all messages or all topics, with full or with excepted texts.
* From [[http://gitrss.q42.co.uk/|GIT Mailing List RSS Feeds]] you can read <b>selected</b> threads (ANNOUNCE, msysGit Herald, Notes from maintainer, What's in...).

= IRC =
<!-- ## [[MoinMoin]] doesn't understand irc:// pseudoprotocol (IRC URL).
 -->
For quick questions or just to hang out with fellow git enthusiasts, join the #git channel on irc.freenode.net.
* [[http://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_logs/git|Official #git channel log]]
* [[http://pasky.or.cz/~pasky/cp/%23git/|Historical #git channel log]]

= [[GitTogether]] =
These are events when git developers and users physically meet in the same place.
See the [[GitTogether]] page for more information.

----
[[CategoryGitHomepage]] ([[http://git.or.cz/#community|Community]])

__NOTOC__