== Git Documentation ==
* Git glossary ([[GitGlossary|[[GitWiki]] version]], [[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/gitglossary.html|HTML version]], [[http://www.kernel.org/git/?p=git/git.git;a=blob;hb=HEAD;f=Documentation/glossary.txt|source via gitweb]])
* Git [[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs|manual page]] - Online version bundled with Git. (The information displayed when using the command <i>man git</i> or <i>git help</i>)
* [[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/user-manual.html|Git User's Manual]] - Online version bundled with Git
* [[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/gittutorial.html|A tutorial introduction to git]] and [[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/gittutorial-2.html|A tutorial introduction to git: part two]] - Online version bundled with Git
* [[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/everyday.html|Everyday Git, with 20 commands or so]] - Online version bundled with Git
* Git for [[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/gitcvs-migration.html|CVS users]] - Online version bundled with Git
* Git SVN [[http://git.or.cz/course/svn.html|crash course]]
* Many [[http://kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/howto/|Howto]] documents come with git as well
* [[http://repo.or.cz/w/git.git?a=tree;f=Documentation/technical;hb=HEAD|Documentation/technical]] for all the technical information relating to Git
* [[TroubleShooting]]

== Documentation on this Wiki ==
All documentation residing on this wiki is put in the [[CategoryGitDocumentation|[[GitDocumentation]] category]]

* Git glossary ([[GitGlossary|[[GitWiki]] version]], [[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/gitglossary.html|HTML version]], [[http://www.kernel.org/git/?p=git/git.git;a=blob;hb=HEAD;f=Documentation/glossary.txt|source via gitweb]])
* Git [[QuickStart]]
* [[GitCheatSheet]]
* An overview of the [[RevisionSpecification]] used by the <code><nowiki>git log</nowiki></code> command and several repository visualizers.
* [[GraftPoint|[[GraftPoints]]]]; when and how to use them
* Introduction to git's [[IndexFile]] and [[WhatIsTheIndex]]
* [[BranchesInGit]] is an explanation about how Git understand branches
* Using common [[CommitMessageConventions]]
* [[SubprojectSupport]] in Git
* Ideas and thoughts on [[PatchManagement]]
* [[HowToWriteTests]] describes how to write test cases for git
* Using [[Aliases]]
* [[GitTips]] and [[GitFaq]]
* [[GitWorkflows]]
* Doing a graft at [[GraftPoint]]
* [[IndexCommandQuickref]]
* The [[RevisionSpecification]]
* Equivalent of <i>svn switch</i> for git-svn: [[GitSvnSwitch]] - when an SVN repos moves

== User contributed Documentation ==
* [[http://book.git-scm.com/|The Git Community Book]] at [[http://git-scm.com|git-scm.com]].
* [[http://gitready.com/|gitready.com]] daily tips for the noob to the guru
* git clone is not resumable - a [[http://xanjax.org/#gitnote.xml|practical workaround]] for unreliable connections / large clones
* Carl Worth's [[http://cworth.org/hgbook-git/tour/|A tour of git: the basics]] [[http://git-users.googlegroups.com/web/gitbasic.pdf?gda=TjULfjwAAACRcUWZoNoqHn0MmsB4ogNRkdJPXci4pHF-t7wRb-FXv_7_kSc1FlgquWbpkoDUr3jz_JaIg30gP77VRAtzw-G6|Mirror(PDF)]] <b>Recommended</b>
* John Wiegley's tutorial describing [[http://www.newartisans.com/blog_files/git.from.bottom.up.php|Git From Bottom Up]] Link to PDF, [[http://git-users.googlegroups.com/web/gitfrombottomup.pdf?gda=52xMLEQAAACpB0I6kTeoe_gDZwr_Wu3rSzh-BYU3WCJcU16DCLQHrmG1qiJ7UbTIup-M2XPURDRYda-7QfdsxTTX4bqgEJoy1bwkoqS54nAZJJjHLLKkeg|Mirror(PDF)]] <b>Recommended</b>
* [[http://osteele.com/archives/2008/05/my-git-workflow|My Git workflow]] and [[http://osteele.com/archives/2008/05/commit-policies|Commit Policies]] by Oliver Steele
* [[http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~blynn/gitmagic/|Git magic]].  A nice use-case driven tutorial. Chinese translation:[[http://docs.google.com/View?id=dfwthj68_675gz3bw8kj|Git ??]].
* [[http://www.redhatmagazine.com/2008/05/02/shipping-quality-code-with-git/|Shipping quality code with git]] at Redhat Magazine
* [[http://www.gitcasts.com/|GitCasts]]
* [[http://eagain.net/articles/git-for-computer-scientists/|Git for computer scientists]]
* [[http://jonas.iki.fi/git_guides/HTML/git_guide|Git in a Nutshell]] by Jonas Jusélius is very well done [[http://www.chem.helsinki.fi/~jonas/git_guides/|Mirror(HTML)]]
* [[http://jonas.iki.fi/git_guides/HTML/CVS2git|CVS to Git transition guide]] [[http://www.chem.helsinki.fi/~jonas/git_guides/|Mirror(HTML)]]
* An [[http://utsl.gen.nz/talks/git-svn/intro.html|introduction to git-svn]]
* [[http://www.jdl.com/papers|The Git Papers]] by Jon Loeliger
* Git wikibook: [[http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Source_Control_Management_With_Git|Source Control Management With Git]]
* [[http://linux.yyz.us/git-howto.html|The Kernel Hacker's Git Tutorial]] by Jeff Garzik
* [[http://git.rsbx.net/|Documents and Notes]] by Raymond S Brand -Out of date? (edit if not)
* [[http://www.golden-gryphon.com/software/misc/packaging.html|Packaging Software using Git]] is an analysis of schemes people use for packaging.
  See also [[http://vcs-pkg.org/|vcs-pkg]] project, aim of which is to investigate the use of version control for distro package maintenance.
* [[http://www.jinx.de/teclog/Entries/2009/1/15_Git_and_DMG_build_scripts_for_Xcode.html|Git scripts for Xcode users]] Build and distribution scripts for Xcode can now also found on [[http://github.com/jollyjinx/jnxfree|github]].
* Slides from [[http://www.breitbandig.de/git/git-as-cvs-en.odp|Git as cvs replacement talk]] (for cvs refugees) and [[http://www.breitbandig.de/git/advanced-git-en.odp|Advanced Git talk]] by Thomas Pasch
* [[http://www.ralfebert.de/blog/tools/visual_git_tutorial_1/|Visual git tutorial]] - The visual git tutorial explains how to locally track project files. It shows how to add and commit changes, how to browse the history, revert changes and how to work with tags and branches.

== Man pages ==
Each git command is documented in its own man page. If the man pages are installed on your local system running:

<pre><nowiki>
$ man git-log</nowiki></pre>
will give you the man page for the git log command. [[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git.html|git(7)]] serves as an overview of git commands and man pages.

Online versions of the [[Git]] man pages corresponding to the latest development version can be found at:

* http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/
There also exists a handful of technical documents that describes lowlevel details on how different parts of git operates. These are mostly useful for developers. You can find them in the [[http://repo.or.cz/w/git.git?a=tree;f=Documentation/technical;hb=HEAD|Documentation/technical]] directory in the git source tree.

== Git's Documentation To-Do list ==
If you wish that something were documented better (or at all), or would like to contribute to Git's documentation, you should check the [[Documentation_To-Do_List]] to see whether your wish has already been mentioned, or to find something to write about.

== Non-english Language Documentation ==
=== Chinese ===
* http://www.bitsun.com/documents/[[GitUserManualChinese]].html translation of official Git user's manual
* http://www.linuxsir.org/main/doc/git/gittutorcn.htm or http://www.bitsun.com/documents/gittutorcn.htm translation of official tutorials
* http://www.linuxsir.org/bbs/showthread.php?t=281294 or http://www.newsmth.net/bbscon.php?bid=392&id=422519
* http://my.opera.com/dahema/blog/show.dml/171011
* http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/cn/linux/l-git/index.html
=== German ===
* [[http://repo.or.cz/w/gitman-de.git|German translation of the Git man pages]] - currently work in progress.
=== Spanish ===
* http://gitorious.org/projects/curso-git-osluca - some notes that I wrote for a short 1-week course on Git
=== Japanese ===
* http://www8.atwiki.jp/git_jp/ - early attempts to translate the manuals.  Has translation of the user-manual (completed).
=== Catalan ===
* http://ca.wikibooks.org/wiki/Tutorial_de_git - A basic tutorial in catalan
----
* [[CategoryGitDocumentation]] [[CategoryGitHomepage]] ([[http://git.or.cz/#documentation|Documentation]])
----
* [[CategoryGitDocumentation]]

__NOTOC__