----
<b>Table of contents:</b>

<<<!-- ! TOC here -->(2)>>
----

Miscelaneous git-related links, not including [http://git.or.cz/ Git homepage], [[GitDocumentation]], 
[[GitCommunity]] links including mailing list archives and IRC logs, [[InterfacesFrontendsAndTools]].

= Wikipedia =
[http://en.wikipedia.org Wikipedia] (English version)
* [[WikiPedia:Git_(software)|Git (software)]] article.
* [[WikiPedia:Cogito_(software)|Cogito (software)]] stub article.
* [[WikiPedia:List_of_revision_control_software|List of revision control software]].
* [[WikiPedia:Comparison_of_revision_control_software|Comparison of revision control software]] tables.
* [[WikiPedia:Revision_control|Revision control]] (Version control) article.

= "Using Git" pages =
* [http://www.linux-mips.org/wiki/Git Git] and [http://www.linux-mips.org/wiki/WhatIsGit What Is Git] on Linux/MIPS wiki.
* [http://wiki.winehq.org/GitWine [[GitWine]] tutorial] at WINE wiki.
* [http://freedesktop.org/wiki/UsingGit Using Git] at freedesktop.org
* [http://www.denx.de/en/Documents/GitDocs Software Configuration Management using `git`] from DENX, home of the U-Boot boot loader.
* [http://wiki.xmms2.xmms.se/index.php/Download_XMMS2 Download XMMS2] at XMMS2 wiki.
* [http://wiki.sourcemage.org/Git_Guide Git Guide] at Sourcemage wiki.
* [http://www.fieldses.org/~bfields/kernel/git.html git tutorial] and [http://www.fieldses.org/~bfields/kernel/stgit.html kernel patch management with stgit] among Bruce Fields [http://www.fieldses.org/~bfields/kernel/ notes on the linux kernel] <i>(work in progress)..</i>
* [http://nico.schotteli.us/papers/linux/git-firmen/ German documentation for git, cogito, gitweb] by Nico Schottelius.
* [http://wiki.u32.net/index.php?title=Git Git] — some notes taken while was learning git by Subversion user, [http://wiki.u32.net/index.php?title=Git/publishing Git/publishing] describes how to publish your archive via http and how to setup gitweb. On [http://wiki.u32.net wiki.u32.net] (MediaWiki powered wiki).

= Articles about Git =

== Mailing list digests ==
* [http://www.kerneltraffic.org/git/index.html Git Traffic] - Newsletter that summarises events on the git mailing list<<BR>> (only one issue, for 2 May 2005, seems abandoned)
* [http://lwn.net/ LWN.net] (Linux Weekly News)
  *[http://lwn.net/Articles/131657/ The guts of git]
  *[http://lwn.net/Articles/132796/ A very quick guide to starting with git]
* [http://kerneltrap.org KernelTrap] (all pre 1.0 release):
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/4982 Managing the Kernel Source With 'git']
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/4998 Continued git Development]
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/5003 Beginner's Guide To Git]
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/5014 Importing The Kernel Into git, Merging]
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/5026 Git Web Interfaces]
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/5059 Official Git Web Interface]
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/5011 git for beginners]
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/5496 Junio Hamano New Git Maintainer]
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/5557 Using Git For More Than The Kernel]
  *[http://kerneltrap.org/node/5993 Git Milestone, 1.0 Release]

== Magazines ==
* [http://www.pcworld.idg.com.au PC World]
  *[http://www.pcworld.idg.com.au/index.php/id;1852076002;fp;16;fpid;0 After controversy, Torvalds begins work on "git"] by Robert McMillan, 20/04/2005.
* [http://www.eweek.com/ eWeek.com]
  *[http://www.eweek.com/article2/0,1895,1788876,00.asp Torvalds Gives Inside Skinny on Git] by Steven J. Vaughan-Nichols,  April 22, 2005.
* [http://www.linux-mag.com Linux Magazine] (requires free subscription)
  *[http://www.linux-mag.com/content/view/2130 Git With It!], written by Sam Williams 
  *[http://www.linux-mag.com/content/view/2533 How To Git It], written by Jon Loeliger.  Also available in [http://www.jdl.com/papers/How_To_Git_It.html HTML] and [http://www.jdl.com/papers/How_To_Git_It.pdf PDF] format on Jon Loeliger (jdl) [http://www.jdl.com/papers/ papers] page.
  *[http://www.linux-mag.com/content/view/2591/ Embracing the Git Index], written by Jon Loeliger (second in series).  Also available in [http://www.jdl.com/papers/Embrace_The_Git_Index.pdf PDF] format on Jon Loeliger (jdl) [http://www.jdl.com/papers/ papers] page.
  *"Collaborating Using Git", written by Jon Loeliger (third in series).  Available in [http://www.jdl.com/papers/Collaborating_Using_Git.pdf PDF] format on Jon Loeliger (jdl) [http://www.jdl.com/papers/ papers] page.

== Articles and Papers ==
* [http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/ developerWorks: IBM's resource for developers]
  *[http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-git/?ca=dgr-lnxw961UsingGit Manage source code using Git] by Eli M. Dow. From 29 Jun 2006, updated 06 Jul 2006. Level: Intermediate.
  *[http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-vercon/index.html?ca=drs- Version control for Linux] by M. Tim Jones. From 10 Oct 2006, updated 16 Oct 2006. Level: Introductory.

== Seminars and presentations ==
* [http://members.cox.net/junkio/200606-tut.pdf Junio C Hamano "Introduction to git"] (PDF) - slides for OSDL Japan Linux Symposium.
* [http://members.cox.net/junkio/200607-ols.pdf Junio C Hamano "git – a stupid content tracker"] (PDF) - slides from Ottava Linux Symposium OLS2006, with full transcripts.
* [http://pasky.or.cz/ols-cogito/ols-cogito.pdf Petr Baudis "Using Cogito and Git"] (PDF) - slides from Ottava Linux Symposium OLS2006. Also in [http://pasky.or.cz/ols-cogito/ols-cogito.odp ODP] format.
* [http://www.jdl.com/OLS/Git_Tutorial.pdf Jon Loeliger "Git Tutorial Tour"] (PDF) - slides from Ottava Linux Symposium OLS2006.
* [http://h4x0r5.com/~ryan/presentations/git-why.pdf Ryan Anderson "Why a distributed SCM?"] (PDF) - slides from Ubucon
* [http://h4x0r5.com/~ryan/presentations/git-tutorial.pdf Ryan Anderson "Git - The Distributed SCM"] (PDF) - slides from Penguicon

== Blogs ==
* [http://willowbend.cx/2005/08/24/git-epiphany/ Git Epiphany] by Darrin 'Willowbend' Thompson, at [http://willowbend.cx/ Willowbend: Confessions of a Wannabe Capitalist] blog, (Wednesday, August 24th, 2005).
* [http://keithp.com/blog/Tyrannical_SCM_selection.html Tyrannical SCM selection] and [http://keithp.com/blog/Repository_Formats_Matter.html Repository Formats Matter] by Keith Packard, about moving X.Org from CVS to Git. (see also [http://www.selenic.com/mercurial/wiki/index.cgi/RepositoryFormatsMatter [[RepositoryFormatsMatter]] in the Mercurial wiki])

= Other version control software =

== List of revision control software ==
=== Software using a non-distributed approach ===
* [http://www.nongnu.org/cvs/ CVS] — very stable and built on RCS — the most used but has many limitations.
* [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] (`svn`) — like CVS but without some of its limitations.
* [http://www.perforce.com/ Perforce] (`p4`) — comprehensive SCM capabilities built around a scalable client/server architecture. Free for use in open source projects.

=== Software using a distributed approach ===
* [http://www.bitkeeper.com/ BitKeeper] (`bk`) (was used in Linux kernel development December 1999 - April 2005)
* [http://www.gnu.org/software/gnu-arch/ GNU Arch] (`tla`) — the original Arch (see also [http://migo.sixbit.org/software/axp/ AXP - Arch eXtension Platform]).
* [http://www.nongnu.org/arx/ ArX] (`arx`) — started as fork of Arch, written in C++.
* [http://bazaar-vcs.org/ Bazaar-NG] (`bzr`) — written in Python. Fast, supports symlinks and merge-through-renames. Decentralised and easy to use. Can losslessly import Arch, Hg, SVN archives.
* [http://www.venge.net/monotone/ Monotone] — full-decentralized in a P2P way.
* [http://www.selenic.com/mercurial/ Mercurial] (`hg`) — written in Python. Extremely fast, lightweight, portable, and easy to use.
* [http://codeville.org/ Codeville] written in Python — Uses an innovative merging algorithm.
* [http://abridgegame.org/darcs/ Darcs] is a decentralized and free revision control system written in the Haskell language can keep track of inter-patch dependencies using a "theory of patches" with roots in quantum mechanics.
* [http://svk.elixus.org/ SVK] is written in Perl — built on top of Subversion to allow distributed commits.

=== Other approaches ===
* [http://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/quilt Quilt] is a set of scripts to manage a series of patches by keeping track of the changes each patch makes. [[StGIT]] and [[pg]] are Git version control interface layers provides a Quilt-like patch management functionality in the Git environment.

== Git comparison with other SCMs ==
Only those including [[Git]] as one of the systems.
* [[WikiPedia:Comparison_of_revision_control_software|Comparison of revision control software]] table at Wikipedia.
* [http://bazaar-vcs.org/RcsComparisons [[RcsComparisons]]] (user-oriented table), [http://bazaar-vcs.org/RCSChoices RCSChoices] (table of the decisions), [http://bazaar-vcs.org/SCMComparisons SCMComparisons] (lists of features) at Bazaar-NG wiki.
* [http://zooko.com/revision_control_quick_ref.html Quick Reference Guide to Free Software Decentralized Revision Control Systems] by Zooko
* [http://www.dwheeler.com/essays/scm.html Comments on Open Source Software / Free Software (OSS/FS) Software Configuration Management (SCM) Systems] by David A. Wheeler, (April 10, 2004; lightly revised May 18, 2005). Git added at the very end of article.
* [http://linuxmafia.com/faq/Apps/scm.html Source-code management on Linux] - large list of SCMs with descriptions at LinuxMafia.
* [http://bramcohen.livejournal.com/17319.html Version Control Shenanigans] and [http://bramcohen.livejournal.com/17925.html More version control stuff] LiveJournal articles by Bram Cohen, founder of Codeville and a current contributor.
* [http://opensolaris.org/os/community/tools/scm/ Source Code Management for OpenSolaris] describes choosing SCM for OpenSolaris (Subversion for centralized SCM, Mercurial for distributed SCM was chosen).
* [http://keithp.com/blog/Repository_Formats_Matter.html Repository Formats Matter] by Keith Packard, about moving X.Org from CVS to Git (and choosing Git over Mercurial), and the [http://www.selenic.com/mercurial/wiki/index.cgi/RepositoryFormatsMatter answer in the Mercurial wiki].
* [http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-vercon/index.html?ca=drs- Version control for Linux] article by M. Tim Jones, at [http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/ IBM's developerWorks] is an overview of SCM architectures, models, and examples (CVS, Subversion, GNU Arch, Git).
* [http://changelog.complete.org/posts/528-Whose-Distributed-VCS-Is-The-Most-Distributed.html Whose Distributed VCS Is The Most Distributed?] entry by John Goerzen compares chosen 8 "ideal VCS" features (author uses Darcs) against different common SCM: Arch (tla, baz, etc), Bazaar-NG (bzr), Darcs, Git, Mercurial (hg), and Subversion (svn). Read also comments for this article.

== SCMs comparison not including Git ==
* [http://better-scm.berlios.de/comparison/ Better SCM Initiative: Comparison] by Shlomi Fish (includes Darcs, Mercurial, Monotone but not Git/Cogito).
* [http://wiki.gnuarch.org/SubVersionAndCvsComparison Subversion and CVS Comparison], includes Aegis, Arch, CVS, Subversion, SVK briefly compared table.
* [http://www.onlamp.com/pub/a/onlamp/2004/01/29/scm_overview.html The New Breed of Version Control Systems] by Shlomi Fish, at O'Reilly ONLamp (CVS, Subversion, Arch, OpenCM, Aegis, Monotone, BitKeeper).

== Generic version control info ==
There is place for generic, non SCM specific, links
* [http://www.dwheeler.com/essays/scm-security.html Software Configuration Management (SCM) Security] by David A. Wheeler (March 13, 2004; Revised May 6, 2005).
* [http://damonpoole.blogspot.com/ Software Configuration Management (SCM) - Damon's Thoughts] blog (by Damon Poole of [[AccuRev]])  - A discussion of the state of Software Configuration Management (SCM) today.
* [http://www.usenix.org/events/hotos03/tech/full_papers/henson/henson.pdf An Analysis of Compare-by-hash] (PDF) by Val Henson, in <i>Proceedings of HotOS IX: The 9th Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems</i>.
* [http://revctrl.org/ Revctrl Wiki], including [http://revctrl.org/CategoryMergeAlgorithm Examples of different merge algorithms] article there.
* [http://software.ericsink.com/scm/source_control.html Source Control HOWTO] (work in progress) and [http://software.ericsink.com/Beyond_CheckOut_and_CheckIn.html Beyond CheckOut and [[CheckIn]]] by Eric Sink, heavily inspired by Vault and Subversion.
* [http://ydirson.free.fr/en/software/scm/ SCM - Software Configuration Management] page by Yann Dirson, dedicated to the research of the ultimate free-software SCM system. Includes [http://ydirson.free.fr/en/software/scm/vc.txt Version control according to Yann Dirson] (aka. "Thoughts about the ideal version-control tool") and [http://ydirson.free.fr/en/software/scm/scm-domains.txt SCMs near-distinct sub-domains list].
* [http://www.isisetup.ch/wiki/IsiSetupRevisionControl Isi Setup Revision Control] page talks about evolution of IsiSetup, and thoughts about using SCMs to manage configuration files.
* [http://thedailywtf.com/forums/thread/98959.aspx Happy Merge Day!] by Alex Papadimoulis at [http://thedailywtf.com/ The Daily WTF: Curious Pervisions in Information Technology] blog is an example on how to <b><u>not</u></b> deploy SCM. Perhaps more important than the article itself are comments to it.
* [http://www.cmcrossroads.com/bradapp/acme/branching/ <i>Streamed Lines:</i> Branching Patterns for Parallel Software Development] (c) 1998 by Brad Appleton, Stephen Berczuk, Ralph Cabrera, and Robert Orenstein.
* [http://www.martinfowler.com/articles/continuousIntegration.html Continuous Integration] by  Martin Fowler about Continuous Integration software development practice.
* [http://www.perforce.com/perforce/bestpractices.html High-level Best Practices in Software Configuration Management] by Laura Wingerd & Christopher Seiwald, Perforce Software /!\
* [http://blog.ianbicking.org/distributed-vs-centralized-scm.html Distributed vs. Centralized Version Control] in Ian Bicking blog, pro-Centralized SCM. /!\
* [http://community.livejournal.com/relisoft/9641.html Distributed Systems] by Bartosz Milewski, in Reliable Software (relisoft) Developers' Journal, about truly distributed SCM vs. distributed database/filesystem centralized SCM. Pro Code Co-Op. /!\

= Other links =
* [http://ydirson.free.fr/en/software/scm/cvsps.html CvsPs patches] - collection of patches to CVSps, tool needed for `git-cvsimport` (see [[Self:InterfacesFrontendsAndTools#git-xxximport|[[InterfacesFrontendsAndTools]]]]).
* [http://git.rsbx.net] Git related information by Gitzilla.
* [http://gittorrent.utsl.gen.nz/ GitTorrent] idea.

__NOTOC__