When an SVN repository moves, the equivalent of <i>svn switch</i> for git-svn is required.

= General Case =
What immediately sprang to mind, and what was suggested e.g. [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/59271|on the mailing list]], was to simply edit your .git/config, and change the url= in the section [svn-remote "svn"]. That doesn't work, however. Instead, I found several suggestions to use variations of[[http://www.ciaran-lee.com/articles/6|this theme]]:

* Edit the svn-remote url URL in .git/config to point to the new domain name
* Run <code><nowiki>git svn fetch</nowiki></code> - <i>This needs to fetch at least one new revision from svn!</i>
* Change svn-remote url back to the original url
* Run <code><nowiki>git svn rebase -l</nowiki></code> to do a local rebase (with the changes that came in with the last fetch operation)
* Change svn-remote url back to the new url
* Run <code><nowiki>git svn rebase</nowiki></code> should now work again!
This will only work, if the <code><nowiki>git svn fetch</nowiki></code> step actually fetches anything! (Took me a while to discover that... I had to put in a dummy revision to our svn repository to make it happen!)

= Using git-filter-branch =

One can also use <code><nowiki>git filter-branch</nowiki></code> directly to rewrite the copied svn-history so that the <code><nowiki>git-svn-id:</nowiki></code> points to the right place.  This technique has been documented at 
[[http://translate.org.za/blogs/wynand/en/content/changing-your-svn-repository-address-git-svn-setup|this entry on winterstream's blog]].
The heart of the technique uses <code><nowiki>sed</nowiki></code> to rewrite the <code><nowiki>git-svn-id:</nowiki></code> entries, but it also includes some magic with <code><nowiki>git-gc</nowiki></code> and <code><nowiki>awk</nowiki></code> to do more complete history rewriting. 

= Using --rewrite-root =
In my case, I had a local <code><nowiki>file://</nowiki></code> mirror, that I wanted to use during the initial <code><nowiki>git svn fetch</nowiki></code> only. After that I wanted to follow the network on a <code><nowiki>ssh://</nowiki></code> mirror, a 1.2 G 7000 rev SVN repo on the other side of the world. So during the initial <code><nowiki>git svn fetch</nowiki></code> I wanted the history to reflect the <code><nowiki>ssh://</nowiki></code> URL for the repos. This worked for me:

<pre><nowiki>
$ git svn init -T trunk -t tags -b brances --rewrite-root  svn+ssh://server/repo file:///some/path
$ git svn fetch
# Wait a while
</nowiki></pre>
Edit .git/config, changing

<pre><nowiki>
    rewriteRoot = svn+ssh://server/repo
    url = file:///some/path
</nowiki></pre>
to

<pre><nowiki>
    rewriteRoot = svn+ssh://server/repo
    url = svn+ssh://server/repo
</nowiki></pre>
<pre><nowiki>
$ git svn rebase
# Now works fine!
</nowiki></pre>
But that will only work that once! You can use the "General Case" above several times, though.

<b>Note</b>: I was not able to find much documentation for the <code><nowiki>--rewrite-root</nowiki></code> option, except what little is found in <code><nowiki>man git-svn</nowiki></code>. However, in <code><nowiki>man git-svn</nowiki></code> under <code><nowiki>svn-remote.<name>.rewriteRoot</nowiki></code> it says:

<pre><nowiki>
these settings should never be changed once they are set
</nowiki></pre>
Clearly, here I change the rewriteRoot option in contradition with <code><nowiki>man git-svn</nowiki></code>. So use at your own risk! :)

----
* [[CategoryGitDocumentation]]

__NOTOC__