= [[GitTogether]] =
These are events when git developers and users physically meet in the same place.

= [[GitTogether]] '09 =

It's not yet decided yet if there will be a [[GitTogether]] in 2009 and when and where it would happen.
Please list bellow the location and date ideas you have. And why they might be good.

=== [[GitTogether]] '09 Location and date ideas ===

* San Francisco area in October, just after the Google Summer of Code Mentor:

Tha date of the Mentor Summit is not yet decided, see:
http://socghop.appspot.com/document/show/program/google/gsoc2009/faqs#timeline

This would make it easy for mentors going to the Mentor Summit to come and attendees could perhaps
be hosted and fed by Google and/or other Git friendly company located nearby.

* Portland, Oregon, in September, during or after [http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/linuxcon LinuxCon] and/or [http://linuxplumbersconf.org/ Linux Plumbers Conference]:

The [http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/linuxcon LinuxCon] is scheduled for September 21 - 23 and the [http://linuxplumbersconf.org/ Linux Plumbers Conference] is scheduled for September 23 - 25.

This would hopefully make it easy for many Git users going to the above conferences to come. 

= "Alles Wird Git" Berlin [[GitTogether]] '09 =
* What: An informal gathering of Gits.
* Date: Saturday, October 3, 2009.
* Time: To be determined.
* Where: To be determined but somewhere in Berlin, DE. Local help is needed to find a venue.
* Why: Gitzilla will be visiting and volunteered a $100 subsidy.
* Who: Any Gits that can attend. IRC handle starting with "git" not required.

Verified attendants:

* Gitzilla
* Steffen Prohaska
* Johannes Schindelin

= [[GitTogether]] '08 Discussions and Projects =
A couple of wiki pages for notes on some of the longer term project topics we discussed at the [[GitTogether]]08.

* [[GTUserInterfaceImprovements]]
* [[GTGitNotes]]
* [[GTNarrowClones]]
* [[GTDocHelpImprovements]]

= [[GitTogether]] '08 =
<b>October 27(Mon)-29(Wed) in [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=Amphitheatre+Pkwy,+Mountain+View,+California+94043,+United+States&sll=37.40293,-121.952735&sspn=0.008565,0.012081&ie=UTF8&cd=2&geocode=FcEHOwIdfiW5-A&ll=37.421572,-122.083619&spn=0.017127,0.024161&t=h&z=16&iwloc=addr Mountain View, California]</b> (day after the Google SoC Mentor Summit).

Signup deadline is Oct 14th.  Google needs a final guest list by then to prepare badges, sign in lists for reception, and a final head-count to plan for food.

Any questions, please contact Shawn Pearce ( gsoc@spearce.org ).

We have a Google Calendar for tracking what we are doing, so consider adding it to your own Google Calendar, iCal or whatever:

* Calendar ID: amj5rbmljs66k9rtibs34kc2c8@group.calendar.google.com
* [http://www.google.com/calendar/ical/amj5rbmljs66k9rtibs34kc2c8@group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics iCal]
* [http://www.google.com/calendar/hosted/google.com/embed?src=amj5rbmljs66k9rtibs34kc2c8@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/Los_Angeles HTML]
* [http://www.google.com/calendar/feeds/amj5rbmljs66k9rtibs34kc2c8@group.calendar.google.com/public/basic XML]

We have a Google Moderator session for questions:

* [http://moderator.appspot.com/#e%253Dagltb2RlcmF0b3JyDgsSBlNlcmllcxi7qwIM GitTogether '08 Topics]

== Attendees ==
# Junio C. Hamano (not on Wednesday)
# Shawn O. Pearce
# Petr Baudis
# John "Warthog" Hawley
# Johannes Schindelin
# Sam Vilain
# David Symonds
# Christian Couder (not on Wednesday)
# Scott Chacon
# Nick Hengeveld
# Steven Grimm
# David Reiss
# Adam Mosseri
# Eugene Letuchy
# Tim Ansell
# Sverre Rabbelier
# Jeff King
# Kai Blin
# Eric Wong
# David Bryson
# David Brown
# Pierre Habouzit (not on Wednesday)
# Tom Preston-Werner
# H. Peter Anvin (aka hpa)
Google has us capped at ~25 attendees.

Please join the [http://lists.utsl.gen.nz/mailman/listinfo.cgi/gittogether GitTogether mailing list].  We promise to keep the traffic low and to disband it after the event.  Useful information for attendees will be sent to this list as we get closer to the [[GitTogether]].

== Approximate Agenda ==
For the full agenda, please see the Google Calendar linked above, but the important highlights are here:

* Monday (27th)
** 8:30-9:30 am: Breakfast at No Name Cafe, Building 43
*** [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=37.421708,-122.084209&ie=UTF8&ll=37.421708,-122.084209&spn=0.009501,0.012703&t=h&z=17&g=37.421708,-122.084209&iwloc=addr 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, California 94043].  The pin is located where No Name Cafe is in Building 43.  Please meet on the patio outside the building 43 lobby.
* 10:00-11:00 am: Johannes Schindelin's Google Tech Talk: Contributing with Git.
** This talk will be recorded and eventually posted on a Google video property (e.g. Google Video or YouTube) after the [[GitTogether]].  It may take up to a month for the video to get uploaded, depending on the backlog of the tech talk staff.
* 12:00-1:00 pm: lunch
** 6:00 pm: Dinner at Charlie's
* Tuesday (28th)
** 9:00-9:30 am: arrive, mingle, hot breakfast
*** [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&saddr=&daddr=37.427258,-122.071775&hl=en&geocode=&mra=mi&mrsp=0&sz=20&sll=37.427265,-122.071771&sspn=0.001087,0.001159&ie=UTF8&ll=37.426786,-122.071484&spn=0.00435,0.004635&t=h&z=18 1500 Crittenden, Mountain View, CA].  The pin is located where our conference room, Asgard Training, is located.
* 12:00-1:00 pm: lunch
** 6:00 pm: Dinner out: Dinner at Mediterranean Grill House, 650 Castro St, Mountain View, CA 94041
* Wednesday (29th)
** 9:00-9:30 am: arrive, mingle, hot breakfast
** 12:00-1:00 pm: lunch
** 6:00 pm: Dinner out: Dinner at Temptations, 288 Castro St, Mountain View, CA 94041
Please try to time your arrival to the 9:00-9:30 am window each day.  Googlers will be on hand to help you sign in and find the meeting room.  After 9:30 signing in will get a little bit more interesting as you may need to work with main reception.

All meals with the exception of Tuesday and Wednesday night are free.  Tuesday and Wednesday dinner are at our own expense.   We'll try to locate two establishments in the Mountain View area with a rough price of $15-$20 USD/person (beverage, entree).  If anyone is a local and has suggestions, gsoc@spearce.org .

== Speakers ==
{| border="1" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="0"
|  <b>Status</b> 
|  <b>Speaker</b> 
|  <b>Kind of session</b> 
|  <b>Title</b> 
|  <b>Talk Length</b> 
| 
|-
|  done 
|  Johannes Schindelin 
|  Google Tech Talk 
|  [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j45cs5_nY2k Contributing with Git] (or: all your rebase are belong to us) ([http://repo.or.cz/w/git/dscho.git?a=blob_plain;f=all-your-rebase.pdf;hb=f23c1c9868256cae8591bddafd64422f95d67b02 slides, PDF])
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  Shawn O. Pearce 
|  Talk + Brainstorm 
|  introduce the secret bundle project 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  Shawn O. Pearce 
|  Talk + Debate 
|  [http://www.spearce.org/2008/11/JGit.pdf JGit, where is it going?] 
|  .5 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  Shawn O. Pearce 
|  Talk + Plan Hacking 
|  [http://www.spearce.org/2008/11/Pack_v4.pdf Pack v4, what's stopping you?] 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  Sam Vilain 
|  [http://utsl.gen.nz/talks/gittorrent/start.html Talk]+Q&A, Discussion 
|  GitTorrent - the [http://gittorrent.utsl.gen.nz/rfc.html rfc], [http://utsl.gen.nz/gitweb/?p=VCS-Git-Torrent implemenation] 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  Sam Vilain 
|  [[FooStyle]] 
|  Git as a DB backend 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  Sam Vilain 
|  War story 
|  [http://utsl.gen.nz/talks/perl-history/slides/ perl.git conversion] 
|  0.5 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  Junio C Hamano 
|  Talk 
|  [http://userweb.kernel.org/~junio/200810-Chron.pdf Git Chronicle], Recent Additions to Git 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  Scott Chacon 
|  Talk/Discussion 
|  Linkable library, Scriptability 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  Scott Chacon 
|  Hack Session(proposed) 
|  Architecting / Building a usable linkable library 
|  ? 
| 
|-
|  lunch 
|  Scott Chacon 
|  Lightning Talk 
|  iGitHub - git daemon and repository browser on the iPhone 
|  10 min 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  Tom Preston-Werner 
|  Talk/Discussion 
|  Git ideas from GitHub 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  S Grimm, D Reiss 
|  Talk/Discussion 
|  [http://docs.google.com/Presentation?id=dhhs72s2_1wtzbnsnj Life with git in a Subversion shop] ([http://docs.google.com/MiscCommands?command=saveasdoc&docID=dhhs72s2_1wtzbnsnj&exportFormat=pdf PDF])
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  Petr Baudis 
|  Talk/Discussion 
|  New git homepage hammering out 
|  0.25- hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  ? 
|  Talk/Discussion 
|  Git GUI that even a designer would use 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  Jeff King 
|  Talk/Discussion 
|  Helping new developers join the git community 
|  0.5 hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  Jeff King 
|  Talk/Discussion 
|  What needs refactoring? 
|  0.5 hour 
| 
|-
|  lunch 
|  Jeff King 
|  Lightning Talk 
|  Portability autobuilders 
|  5 min 
| 
|-
|  lunch 
|  Petr Baudis 
|  Lightning Talk 
|  Quick TopGit introduction, problems, future plans 
|  10 min 
| 
|-
|  
|  Petr Baudis 
|  War story 
|  Deploying Git in pharma corporation ([http://pasky.or.cz/~pasky/cp/gittogether-novartis.sxi SXI],[attachment:GitTogether08-pasky-Git_at_Novartis-converted.swf SWF],[http://pasky.or.cz/g/gitweb.cgi?p=templatedemo.git;a=summary demo]) 
|  0.5 hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  Petr Baudis 
|  Talk/Brainst./Hacking 
|  introduce the [http://repo.or.cz/w/giddy.git secret pickaxe project] 
|  0.25 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  Petr Baudis 
|  Talk/Discussion/Hack 
|  What still rocks in Cogito and other Git's UI abominations ([http://pasky.or.cz/~pasky/cp/gittogether-ui.sxi SXI],[attachment:GitTogether08-pasky-Git_UI-converted.swf SWF]) 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  David Brown 
|  Talk/Discussion 
|  [http://www.davidb.org/git/git-corp.pdf Using git in a 150+ user corporate environment] 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  scheduled 
|  Jeffrey Altman 
|  Talk/Discussion 
|  OpenAFS' switch to Git, where is Windows Git going? 
|  1 hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  Petr Baudis 
|  Brainstorming 
|  Renames - current situation, future options 
|  0.25+ hour 
| 
|-
|  
|  Petr Baudis 
|  Tutorial 
|  TopGit 
|  0.5 hour 
| 
|}
If anyone else wants to introduce or lead a section, please add your name above to volunteer.

== Suggested Topics ==
The following topics have been proposed for talks/workshops/hack-sessions:

* GitTorrent: current state, security considerations, future direction
* Submodules: how to make a UI for this important feature that is intuitive and complete
* PackV4
* JGit, quo vadis<<[[FootNote]](quo vadis == 'where are you going?')>>?
* Using Git for everything but source (Git as a backup tool, how to handle large blobs, using as a DB back-end, etc)
* How to make Git more attractive to the Google Code folks?
* Success/War stories (big wanking session for Gits)
* perl.git - the joy of grokking Perforce metadata using Postgres, and writing a transactional git-fastimport exporter SamV
* Linkable library for basic object access (libification or new library)
* Scriptability, using git in other languages (using interfaces vs calling plumbing vs reimplementting)
* Git GUI that even a designer could use (GitCheetah, AKA TortoiseGit?) (UI session?)
* Git integration with IDE, RAD, and editors (UI session?)
* New Git Homepage hammering-out (UI session?)
* Shawn's current bundle related secret project
* TopGit introduction/design/integration(?)
* Pasky's current pickaxe related "secret project" (if tangible by then)
* Extending Git with volatile metadata database (see [http://mid.gmane.org/20080910164045.GL10360@machine.or.cz 20080910164045.GL10360@machine.or.cz])
* Git improvement ideas gleaned from creating and running GitHub as a social layer on top of Git
* Git Survey 2008 results and discussion
* Hack session - try to port Bazaar's new diff algorithm to Git, compare results with Git's diff
* Free form "We tried to use git in our project this way, didn't work very well" session, where participants are not allowed to say "Your workflow is broken".

== Directions ==
Its up to you to get to Google each day.  You may want to try and carpool with other attendees staying at nearby hotels.

When mapping driving directions you want to use [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&saddr=&daddr=37.427258,-122.071775&hl=en&geocode=&mra=mi&mrsp=0&sz=20&sll=37.427265,-122.071771&sspn=0.001087,0.001159&ie=UTF8&ll=37.426786,-122.071484&spn=0.00435,0.004635&t=h&z=18 1500 Crittenden, Mountain View, CA] as the building street address.

The destination pin "B" on the map is positioned where Asgard Training is within the building; its on the first floor directly off the lobby.

<i>Parking:</i> Any parking that is not otherwise reserved for the disabled, expectant mothers, etc., is fair game.  Help yourself.

<i>Sign In:</i> You will need to sign in at reception each day. You will be asked by our system to execute an NDA, which covers anything you may learn about Google during the course of your visit, not the content of your meeting. If you feel strongly about not executing the NDA, you can go right ahead and decline it during sign in. You won't be anywhere near employee areas so I don't care if you sign it or not.

<i>Photos:</i> Nope. Outside only. Be good.

<i>Recording:</i> Audio only, no video. Be good.

== Misc. ==
Google will be serving hot breakfast each day, in addition to endless coffee and beverages during the event.  Lunch each day will also be catered at the meeting space.  Monday night we will carpool over to eat at Charlie's (Google's main cafeteria), free of charge.  Tuesday and Wednesday we will arrange dinner off-campus.

Plenty of table space and power outlets will be available in the meeting room.  Folks outside the US may need to bring an outlet adapter/voltage converter.  Please make sure to bring your laptop power supply.  Unlike most Google conference rooms our meeting space does not come with built-in laptop power connectors.  Even Googlers need to bring their own power supply.

Google has free wireless Internet access available everywhere on the campus ("GoogleGuest").  802.11 wireless support is required to connect to the Internet.  Hardwired LAN connections are not available in our meeting space.  If you think you'll want to get online during the sessions please test your wireless to make sure it is working before you travel.

== Travel Details ==
Google provides some [http://code.google.com/events/visitors/ information] about discounted lodging, visiting and parking.

A cab ride from the airport to a nearby hotel will cost approximately, depending on traffic:

* OAK - 120 USD
* SFO - 80 USD
* SJC - 35 USD
Public transit is available in the area, look at [http://www.google.com/transit Google Transit] to help you plan a route.

If you would prefer to spend less than you would on taxi service but would prefer to be picked up at the airport rather than navigate public transport, try [http://www.supershuttle.com/ Super Shuttle]. Shared rides (with a van full of other travelers) start at about 35 USD from any of the area airports.

== Nearby Activities ==
If you are traveling far and wish to stay some extra time there are many activities in the bay area.

* [http://www.onlyinsanfrancisco.com/ San Francisco] is 45 minutes north of Mountain View.
* [http://www.santacruz.org/index.shtml Santa Cruz] is 45 minutes south of Mountain View.
* [http://www.humboldtredwoods.org/ Redwoods State Park] is a 4 hour drive from San Francisco.
* [http://www.nps.gov/seki/ Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Park] about a 4 hour drive from Mountain View.

== Photos ==
* http://gallery.eaglescrag.net/v/Events/[[GitTogether]]+2008/
* http://picasaweb.google.com/dsymonds/[[GitTogether]]08
* [http://gitster.livejournal.com/17887.html GitTogether Group Photo] by Junio C Hamano

== Trackback and Links ==
* [http://github.com/blog/196-gittogether-2008 GitTogether 2008] by Scott Chacon on GitHub blog describes what happened there.
* [http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2008/11/gittogether-08.html GitTogether '08] post by Shawn Pearce, Google Open Source Programs Office and Git contributor, on [http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/ Open Source At Google] blog, has links to results of GitTogether 2008 (in form of email threads)
* SD Times On The Web mentions GitTogether'08 in [http://www.sdtimes.com/link/33018 Git changes how developers manage source code versions] by Alex Handy
* Junio C Hamano (Git maintainer) talks about GitTogether'08 in his blog:
** [http://gitster.livejournal.com/17222.html Gittogether coming up...]
** [http://gitster.livejournal.com/18110.html Back from GitTogether]<<BR>> (includes minor correction to SDTimes article mentioned above)

= Previous [[GitTogether]] =
One such event happened in 2007 with a few developers.  It was an informal, fun time, but not technical.

----
<b>Footnotes:</b> <<[[FootNote]]>>

-----
[[CategoryEvents]]

__NOTOC__