= [[GitTogether]] '10 =
''October 25(Mon)-27(Wed) in [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=1500+Plymouth+St,+Mountain+View,+CA+94043&sll=37.420123,-122.08592&sspn=0.010123,0.011952&ie=UTF8&t=h&z=17 1500 Plymouth St, Mountain View, California]'' (day after the Google Summer of Code Mentor Summit).

Signup is now CLOSED.

== Attendees ==
# Shawn O. Pearce
# Rob Heittman
# Nasser Grainawi
# Martin Fick
# Andrew Bayer
# David Borowitz
# Jean-Baptiste Queru
# Avery Pennarun
# Junio C Hamano
# Tom Preston-Werner
# Maria Gutowski
# Fredrik Luthander
# Ulrik Sjölin
# Stephen Boyd
# Chris Aniszczyk
# Thomas Rast
# Jelmer Vernooij
# Jens Lehmann
# Heiko Voigt
# Sverre Rabbelier
# John 'Warthog9' Hawley
# Patrick Renaud
# Martin von Zweigbergk
# Brad Larson
# Scarlette Ng
# Jonathan "Duke" Leto
# Juan Delgado
# Jeff King
# Anush Elangovan
# Mandeep Baines
# Benjamin Meyer
# Dmitry Fink

Google has us capped at 32 attendees.

Please join the [http://groups.google.com/group/gittogether-2010/ GitTogether mailing list].  We promise to keep the traffic low and only about this event. Useful information for attendees will be sent to this list as we get closer to the [[GitTogether]].

== Agenda ==

Arrive around 9:00 am each day.  Googlers will be on hand to help you sign in and find the meeting room.  After 9:30 sign-in will be difficult as there is no reception service in our building.

Hot breakfast will be catered in the meeting space.  Lunch will be provided in a nearby Google Cafe.  Coffee, beverages and small snacks will also be available throughout the day.

Dinner:
* Dinner on Monday sponsored by [http://www.github.com/ GitHub]: [http://www.dishdash.net/dinner.htm DishDash] - 190 South Murphy St, Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
* Dinner on Tuesday sponsored by [http://code.google.com/ Google]: [http://www.amarinthaicuisine.com/ Amarin Thai] - 74-176 Castro Street, Mountain View, CA
* Dinner on Wednesday is not pre-arranged.

== Suggested Topics ==

Please propose a topic by adding it to the table below.

{| border="1" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="0"
|  ''Speaker'' 
|  ''Kind of session'' 
|  ''Title'' 
|  ''Talk Length'' 
|-
|  Avery Pennarun
|  Design presentation + discussion
|  How [http://github.com/apenwarr/bup bup] stores 1TB+ in git, and what exploded along the way
|  40 min
|-
|  Avery Pennarun
|  Discussion / brainstorm
|  How can we make git-submodule/[http://github.com/apenwarr/git-subtree git-subtree] usable by mere mortals?
|  20 min
|-
|  Jelmer Vernooij
|  Presentation / Discussion
|  [http://samba.org/~jelmer/dulwich Dulwich]
|  20 min
|-
|  Brad Larson
|  Presentation / Discussion
|  [http://hudson-ci.org/ Hudson] and [http://code.google.com/p/gerrit/ Gerrit] integration
|  20 min
|-
|  Shawn Pearce
|  Presentation
|  Git on DHTs
|  15 min
|-
|  Shawn Pearce
|  Discussion
|  Distributed code reviews
|  20 min
|-
|  Everyone
|  Ignite/Lighting Talks
|  How to (not) abuse Git
|  20/50 min
|-
|  Thomas Rast
|  Presentation / brainstorming
|  Resurrecting the exponential-stride/bisection algorithm; practical issues
|  20 min
|-
|  Jonathan "Duke" Leto
|  Discussion / brainstorming
|  Git and Encryption : What is the best way to do X ?
|  20 min
|-
|  Jonathan "Duke" Leto
|  Discussion / brainstorming
|  Git and Big Files
|  10 min
|-
|  Jens Lehmann / Heiko Voigt
|  Presentation / Discussion
|  Using Git in a centralized, Gui based environment - What we achieved and what could be improved
|  30-40 min
|-
|  Jeff King
|  Discussion / brainstorming
|  Tolerating clock skew in commit histories
|  30 min
|-
|  Jeff King
|  Short presentation
|  Git as Software Freedom Conservancy member project
|  10 min
|}

== Directions ==
Its up to you to get to Google each day.  You may want to try and carpool with other attendees staying at nearby hotels.

When mapping driving directions you want to use [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=1500+Plymouth+St,+Mountain+View,+CA+94043&sll=37.420123,-122.08592&sspn=0.010123,0.011952&ie=UTF8&t=h&z=17 1500 Plymouth St, Mountain View, California] as the building street address.

The meeting space, Palomar Tech Talk, is on the second floor of the Plymouth 1 building.

''Parking:'' Any parking that is not otherwise reserved for the disabled, expectant mothers, etc., is fair game.  Help yourself.

''Sign In:'' You will need to sign in at reception each day. You will be asked by our system to execute an NDA, which covers anything you may learn about Google during the course of your visit, not the content of the [[GitTogether]]. If you feel strongly about not executing the NDA, you can go right ahead and decline it during sign in. You won't be that close to employee areas, so I don't care if you sign it or not.

''Photos:'' Nope. Outside only. Be good.

''Recording:'' Audio only, no video. Be good.  Since this is a standard Google tech talk room, we may be able to take advantage of the video recording capabilities to record a specific talk or two and post them on [http://www.youtube.com/ YouTube] after the event.

== Misc. ==
Plenty of table space and power outlets will be available in the meeting room.  Folks outside the US may need to bring an outlet adapter/voltage converter.  Please make sure to bring your laptop power supply.  Unlike most Google conference rooms our meeting space does not come with built-in laptop power connectors.  Even Googlers need to bring their own power supply.

Google has free wireless Internet access available everywhere on the campus ("GoogleGuest").  802.11 wireless support is required to connect to the Internet.  Hardwired LAN connections are not available in our meeting space.

== Travel Details ==
Google provides some [http://code.google.com/events/visitors/ information] about discounted lodging, visiting and parking.

Public transit is available in the area, look at [http://www.google.com/transit Google Transit] to help you plan a route.

If you would prefer to spend less than you would on taxi service but would prefer to be picked up at the airport rather than navigate public transport, try [http://www.supershuttle.com/ Super Shuttle]. Shared rides (with a van full of other travelers) start at about 35 USD from any of the area airports.

Nearby airports are, in increasing distance from Google:

* [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=SJC&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=79.498962,97.910156&ie=UTF8&t=h&z=15 SJC] - San Jose, CA
* [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=SFO&sll=37.366695,-121.925906&sspn=0.04052,0.047808&ie=UTF8&t=h&z=14 SFO] - San Fransisco, CA
* [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=OAK&sll=37.615223,-122.389979&sspn=0.080771,0.095615&ie=UTF8&t=h&z=14 OAK] - Oakland, CA

== Nearby Activities ==
If you are traveling far and wish to stay some extra time there are many activities in the bay area.

* [http://www.onlyinsanfrancisco.com/ San Francisco] is 45 minutes north of Mountain View.
* [http://www.santacruz.org/index.shtml Santa Cruz] is 45 minutes south of Mountain View.
* [http://www.humboldtredwoods.org/ Redwoods State Park] is a 4 hour drive from San Francisco.
* [http://www.nps.gov/seki/ Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Park] about a 4 hour drive from Mountain View.

__NOTOC__