This page is for recording (or discussion) of [[GitWikiSuggestions|Suggestions]] about the the [[FrontPage|[[GitWiki]]]] Web site.

Make sure your suggestion doesn’t exist already or that your question has already been answered by checking [[HelpContents]].

----
<b>Table of contents</b>

<<<!-- ! TOC here -->(2)>>
----

= Editing =

== SVN comparison page name needs typo fix ==
The [[GitSvnComparsion]] page has very good content, but should really be named [[GitSvnComparison]]; I already fixed the spelling ("comparsion" -> "comparison") in the page itself. It will also be easier to find via search engines ...

I thought it safer and more polite to leave the page rename fix to someone other than a first-time visitor. Thanks.

== Parsers ==
It would be nice to have installed parsers from [[MoinMoin:[[ParserMarket]]|[[ParserMarket]]]] (see [[MoinMoin:[[ParserMarket]]#head-17c33967bbb4345a453627b944bad1f1bc4b2791|Installation Instructions]] there) for languages used in [[Git]], [[Cogito]] and examples, i.e for <b>Perl</b>, <b>shell</b> and e.g. <b>diff</b>.
* Perl parsers from [[MoinMoin:[[ParserMarket]]|[[ParserMarket]]]]: [[MoinMoin:parser/Perl|parser/Perl]] by Johannes Hoerburger <i>(`.py` extension needs to be aded)</i>.
* diff output parsers from [[MoinMoin:[[ParserMarket]]|[[ParserMarket]]]]: [[MoinMoin:parser/diff.py|parser/diff.py]] by Emilio Lopes.

== [[InterWiki]] Links ==
It would be nice if there were shorter [[InterWiki]] links for linking to the [[Git]] and [[Cogito]] [[GitDocumentation|documentation]], both HTML version and gitweb sources. One of the way of adding InterWiki link is to modify site's `data/intermap.txt` file.

For git and cogito manpages online it would mean that instead of writing for example
<pre><nowiki>
[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-apply.html git-apply(1)]
</nowiki></pre>
([http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-apply.html git-apply(1)]) use <i>(proposal)</i> GitDoc InterWiki link, i.e. use one of the following (ones that are possible to create)
<pre><nowiki>
[wiki:GitDoc:git-apply git-apply(1)]
GitDoc:git-apply
</nowiki></pre>
if it is not possible). Analogous for Cogito docs.

For links to file in the git.git source via gitweb, instead of using for example
<pre><nowiki>
[http://www.kernel.org/git/?p=git/git.git;a=blob;hb=HEAD;f=Documentation/git-apply.txt git-apply.txt]
</nowiki></pre>
([http://www.kernel.org/git/?p=git/git.git;a=blob;hb=HEAD;f=Documentation/git-apply.txt git-apply.txt]) use GitSource InterWiki link
<pre><nowiki>
[wiki:GitSource:Documentation/git-apply.txt git-apply.txt]
</nowiki></pre>

----
Would be also of use to have [[InterWiki]] links for common [[GitCommunity|[[GitMailingList]]]] archives, i.e. MARC and GMane, similarly like there is now <code><nowiki>MsgID</nowiki></code> InterWiki link?

= New Pages =

Here a few suggestions for new pages.

== Best Practice Page ==
* commit message: short summary (<80 characters and not the beginning sentence continuing in second line) \n\n long description
   Reason: emailed patches, oneline log, gitweb overview.
   Some tools currently insert new lines after the first line if there is none. This may be considered as a bug and should be fixed.
* branching is easy and fast, use it (encourage topic branches)
* rebase if you've been the only person working on the branch to prevent unnecessary merges (making the history complicated)
* do not rewind history on public repositories or repositories used by someone else than you, it will cause confusion

== Development Page ==
* common pitfalls
** run make test after patching
** check for correct whitespaces (tabs, no spaces for indentation, no space at eol)
* editor settings
   vim:tabstop=8:softtabstop=8:shiftwidth=8:noexpandtab:textwidth=80 for C files
   documentation seems to use a bit less than 80 for the textwidth most of the time, is there any recommendation for that?
* mua settings
   Is it possible in some user agents to reply automatically to all people in a thread and the mailing list? If so please post configuration options :)
* mutt: press g (group-reply) but this may set the wrong followup-to header

= Merging pages =

== [[IndexFile]] and [[WhatIsIndex]] ==

* [[IndexFile]] and [[WhatIsTheIndex]] pages are about nearly the same topic; perhaps they should be merged into one page.

= Random stuff =
* Why is there always a Git-prefix to the wiki pages?
 [http://homepage.mac.com/draftee/18.html fingering webcam 06] | [http://homepage.mac.com/preface1/43.html teen webcam girls] | [http://treatments.dreamstation.com/94.html hot porn vid] | [http://fed.fcpages.com/1.html kimberly the milf] | [http://homepage.mac.com/bark4/1.html best behind handjob] | [http://doldrums.freecities.com/13.html big boob pantyhose] | [http://assayer.o-f.com/63.html webcam destin] | [http://homepage.mac.com/richard129/64.html webcam slut pictures] | [http://chatterer.1sweethost.com/10.html resident evil 3 hentai] | [http://obbligati.kogaryu.com/74.html webcam video tgp] | [http://homepage.mac.com/shockable/19.html pissing on peolple] | [http://homepage.mac.com/revelation4/29.html virginia college webcam] | [http://couplings.g0g.net/82.html suffolk gloryhole] | [http://homepage.mac.com/presbyopia/19.html couples adult webcam] | [http://homepage.mac.com/nite1/67.html naked webcam pics] | [http://reliably.ibnsites.com/68.html onepiece nami hentai] | [http://homepage.mac.com/sezession/13.html software creative webcam] | [http://wright.100freemb.com/40.html webcam teen clips] | [http://homepage.mac.com/permafrost2/64.html ass webcam pics] | [http://homepage.mac.com/unanswered/77.html chat webcam software] | [http://leviers.ibnsites.com/36.html phone webcam sex] | [http://wingspan.9cy.com/33.html extreme black boobs] | [http://cowgirls.o-f.com/89.html hardcore vaginal sex] | [http://gutsy.fcpages.com/95.html blonde lesbian ass] | [http://luminaria.00freehost.com/17.html cute webcam girls] | [http://homepage.mac.com/frowningly/19.html spank male cartoon] | [http://blighter.exactpages.com/79.html college gang bangs] | [http://homepage.mac.com/feelings1/48.html webcam tease] | [http://fed.fcpages.com/19.html fat ass] | [http://homepage.mac.com/knows1/24.html fat black bitch] | [http://reuniting.g0g.net/93.html masturbation girl movie] | [http://vacillates.wtcsites.com/94.html handjob pussy cum] | [http://homepage.mac.com/gothically/84.html xxx porn] | [http://homepage.mac.com/presbyters/23.html webcam girls free] | [http://estival.exactpages.com/71.html brazil tgirl] | [http://menopausal.greatnow.com/53.html porno monkey]

__NOTOC__