<b>Graft points</b> or <b>grafts</b> enable two otherwise different
lines of development to be joined together. It works by letting
users record <i>fake</i> ancestry information for commits.
This way you can make git pretend the set of parents a commit has
is different from what was recorded when the commit was created.

= Reasons for Using Grafts =

Grafts can be useful when moving development to git, since it allows you
to make cloning of the old history imported from another SCM optional.
This keeps the initial clone for users who just wants to follow the
latest version down while developers can have the full development
history available.

When Linus started using git for maintaining his kernel tree
there didn't exist any tools to convert the old kernel history.
Later, when the old kernel history was imported into git from
the bkcvs gateway, grafts was created as a method for making
it possible to tie the two different repositories together.

Git grafts are useful if you need to do [[http://radorant.blogspot.com/2009/06/use-git-to-do-your-svn-merges.html|subversion merges]] in a git branch maintained using git svn.  Until very recent subversion releases subversion had no merge tracking which made repeated merges between 2 branches problematic in that you would have to remerge things which had already been merged before.  Git grafting can alleviate these issues.

= How to Use Grafts =

On the technical side, graft points are configured via
the <code><nowiki>.git/info/grafts</nowiki></code> file. It has one record per line
describing a commit and its fake parents by listing their
40-byte hexadecimal object names separated by a space and
terminated by a newline. <pre><nowiki>
<commit sha1> <parent sha1> [<parent sha1>]*
</nowiki></pre>

* [[http://www.ussg.iu.edu/hypermail/linux/kernel/0604.0/1249.html|An example script]],
 for downloading the historic linux kernel pack file and inserting grafts point.

* A more readable [[http://elinks.cz/grafthistory.sh|history grafting script]] used by
 the ELinks project.

----
[[CategoryGitDocumentation]]
[[CategoryGlossary]]

__NOTOC__