<!-- ## Please edit system and help pages ONLY in the moinmaster wiki! For more
 -->
<!-- ## information, please see [[MoinMaster]]:[[MoinPagesEditorGroup]].
 -->
<!-- ##master-page:[[FrontPage]]
 -->
<!-- #format wiki
 -->
<!-- #language en
 -->
<!-- #pragma section-numbers off
 -->
= Git Wiki =

This is the Git Wiki site. It is a little experimental right now; it is not
currently meant as the primary source of information about [[Git]] but it might
be useful for easy information exchange between users of Git and the Git
[[Porcelain|porcelains]] like [[Cogito]], [http://wiki.procode.org/cgi-bin/wiki.cgi/StGIT StGIT]
and such.  Well, have fun! And as the wiki users say, edit with courage.

The other information sources are the [http://git.or.cz/ Git Homepage] (the
webmaster takes patches) and obviously the stock documentation:
* http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs
* http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/cogito/docs

== Getting Help ==
* See the [[GitCommunity]] page for mailing list and IRC information.
* See the [[GitDocumentation]] page for an overview of git related documentation.
* See the [[GitGlossary]] ([http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/glossary.html original]) for explanation of terminology.
* See the [[GitFaq]] page for frequently asked questions.
* See the [[GitTips]] page for tips on how to get the most out of git.
* See the [[GitCommonMistakes]] page to avoid common pitfalls encountered when switching to git.

== Additional Information ==
* See the [[GitHistory]] for a bit of history, inspirations and design decisions.
* See the [[GitLinks]] for further reading.
* Read [[Git]] and [[Cogito]] pages.
* Read [[WikiPedia:Git_(software)|Git (software)]] article at [http://en.wikipedia.org Wikipedia].

== Interfaces and other Git Tools ==
* [[InterfacesFrontendsAndTools]] lists other programs that work with [[Git]].
* [[InterfacesFrontendsAndToolsWishlist]] list other programs that we would want to work with Git.
* [[GitBenchmarks]] shows how Git performs and how compares to other version control systems.

== Projects using Git ==
Projects that use [[Git]] for their source code management are listed in [[GitProjects]].

== Other pages ==
* [[WindowsInstall]] tells how to install Git on MS Windows.
* Check out [[GitRelatedLogos]].
* Read [[GitSurvey|Git Users Survey]] results; check [[GitSurveyData]] for survey raw data.
* See a comparsion between Git and Subversion in [[GitSvnComparsion]].

== Getting Involved ==
* Subscribe to the git mailing list (see [[GitCommunity]] page).
* Check out [[ToDo]] page.
* Check the current [http://kernel.org/git/?p=git/git.git;a=blob;hb=todo;f=TODO TODO list], it is in the todo branch in the git repository.
* Read [http://kernel.org/git/?p=git/git.git;a=blob;f=Documentation/SubmittingPatches Documentation/[[SubmittingPatches]]] before submitting patches.
* Additionally, have a look at [[InterfacesFrontendsAndToolsWishlist]].
* Some [[notes]] from the maintainer

=== Git Wiki ===
* [[GitWikiSuggestions]] – Your suggestions for improvement of the wiki.

----
----

== Wiki Metainformation ==

FYI, a Wikipedia-like link syntax is also supported aside of the [[MoinMoinWiki]]-like one
(since everyone is used to Wikipedia and it's much easier to write):

* You can make links using <code><nowiki>[[linkname]]</nowiki></code> (or even <code><nowiki>[[target|label]]</nowiki></code>; all the other moinmoin ways to make links work as well). The link target's initial letter will be automagically capitalized; if you want to avoid that, use <code><nowiki>[[link]]</nowiki></code>
* If you ever need to use macros here, use a <code><nowiki> <<macroname>> </nowiki></code> syntax.

=== What is this wiki about? ===

Interesting starting points:
* [[RecentChanges]]: see where people are currently working
* [[WikiSandBox]]: feel free to change this page and experiment with editing
* [[Special:Search|FindPage]]: search or browse the database in various ways
* [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Help:Editing SyntaxReference]: quick access to wiki syntax
* [[Special:Specialpages|SiteNavigation]]: get an overview over this site and what it contains

=== How to use this site ===

A Wiki is a collaborative site, anyone can contribute and share:
* Edit any page by pressing <b><<[[GetText]](Edit)>></b> at the top or the bottom of the page
* Create a link to another page with joined capitalized words (like [[WikiSandBox]]) or with <code><nowiki>[[quoted words in brackets]]</nowiki></code>
* Search for page titles or text within pages using the search box at the top of any page
* See [[HelpForBeginners]] to get you going, [[HelpContents]] for all help pages.

To learn more about what a [[WikiWikiWeb]] is, read about [[MoinMoin]]:[[WhyWikiWorks]] and the [[MoinMoin]]:[[WikiNature]]. Also, consult the [[MoinMoin]]:[[WikiWikiWebFaq]].

This wiki is powered by MediaWiki.
 [http://homepage.mac.com/vice3/56.html housewife gang bang] | [http://homepage.mac.com/vice3/74.html nudes pregnant] | [http://homepage.mac.com/apollo26/27.html teen oral cartoons] | [http://homepage.mac.com/feminised1/45.html mature dirty] | [http://homepage.mac.com/plashes/44.html xrated dvd] | [http://homepage.mac.com/bactria1/8.html shemale female action] | [http://homepage.mac.com/breakup/61.html pink dildo] | [http://homepage.mac.com/rumour1/23.html black tiffany nude] | [http://homepage.mac.com/vice3/29.html dominant wife] | [http://homepage.mac.com/inundation1/11.html lactating pregnant women] | [http://homepage.mac.com/salvage3/8.html horny toon moves] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cocteau2/35.html free latina butts] | [http://homepage.mac.com/covets/56.html wet holes] | [http://homepage.mac.com/funs/75.html redhead virgin] | [http://homepage.mac.com/outline3/29.html large black penis] | [http://homepage.mac.com/supermoms/86.html teens feet] | [http://homepage.mac.com/bankcard/72.html peep hole bra] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cums/5.html squirter ejaculation] | [http://homepage.mac.com/slangs1/8.html mpg hand job] | [http://homepage.mac.com/sensation2/45.html hood ebony model] | [http://homepage.mac.com/flays/74.html spanking trampling] | [http://homepage.mac.com/bankcard/49.html young girls vibrator] | [http://homepage.mac.com/rejoinder/71.html oral squirt] | [http://homepage.mac.com/phenols/97.html free porno thumbs] | [http://homepage.mac.com/proposes/17.html upskirt shaved pussy] | [http://homepage.mac.com/ontogenic/63.html women large cock] | [http://homepage.mac.com/bactria1/47.html redhead dildo show] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cobol1/83.html vagina galleries] | [http://homepage.mac.com/sensation2/27.html see up skirt] | [http://homepage.mac.com/pursuing/26.html milf challenge penny] | [http://homepage.mac.com/safeguard5/70.html ebonys titty fucking] | [http://homepage.mac.com/kettledrum/54.html grannies threesome] | [http://homepage.mac.com/pursuing/52.html online hentai rental] | [http://homepage.mac.com/twofaced/7.html blow job samples] | [http://homepage.mac.com/carbonous/46.html plumper creampie] | [http://homepage.mac.com/feminised1/53.html girls group masturbation] | [http://homepage.mac.com/stanch/17.html dick clark show] | [http://homepage.mac.com/benignest/48.html females piss] | [http://homepage.mac.com/diyarbakir/45.html omega-6 fatty acid] | [http://homepage.mac.com/plashes/75.html biggest cock mpeg] | [http://homepage.mac.com/safeguard5/80.html oral groups] | [http://homepage.mac.com/outline3/57.html trampling fetish psychology] | [http://homepage.mac.com/covets/60.html beyonce knowles bum] | [http://homepage.mac.com/frontwards1/16.html asian escorts nj] | [http://homepage.mac.com/flays/68.html young sexy ladies] | [http://homepage.mac.com/omitting/17.html gay watersports amateur] | [http://homepage.mac.com/coherences/35.html first date etiquette] | [http://homepage.mac.com/seduce1/55.html ejaculation tips] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cocteau2/15.html latina hardcore pornstar] | [http://homepage.mac.com/hakes1/21.html girls topless webcam] | [http://homepage.mac.com/flays/35.html sexy grandma stories] | [http://homepage.mac.com/bowlers/82.html free fisting pictures] | [http://homepage.mac.com/kettledrum/74.html olivia hussey vids] | [http://homepage.mac.com/funs/91.html bikini arse] | [http://homepage.mac.com/musashi888/3.html shemale tits cock] | [http://homepage.mac.com/pursuing/59.html shaven vagina] | [http://homepage.mac.com/sensation2/41.html free anal tranny] | [http://homepage.mac.com/apollo26/13.html erotic sex jewelry] | [http://homepage.mac.com/archers2/11.html interacial gay video] | [http://homepage.mac.com/breakup/77.html blond bear gay] | [http://homepage.mac.com/phenols/44.html panty fetish wearing] | [http://homepage.mac.com/safeguard5/21.html lesbian sex oral] | [http://homepage.mac.com/funs/22.html up squirt sex] | [http://homepage.mac.com/breakup/4.html shemale double penetration] | [http://homepage.mac.com/funs/52.html smoking twinks] | [http://homepage.mac.com/carbonous/3.html granny younger] | [http://homepage.mac.com/trollop/9.html reverse gang bangs] | [http://homepage.mac.com/refinished/32.html japan teen bukkake] | [http://homepage.mac.com/abrogating/10.html sluts dating] | [http://homepage.mac.com/pursuing/71.html naked bisexual female] | [http://homepage.mac.com/feminised1/2.html black charmeuse lingerie] | [http://homepage.mac.com/abrogating/40.html mature gay orgy] | [http://homepage.mac.com/kettledrum/52.html french knicker fetish] | [http://homepage.mac.com/googol1/37.html can i squirt] | [http://homepage.mac.com/underbids/23.html sexy pussy] | [http://homepage.mac.com/refinished/19.html female pantyhose sex] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cobol1/54.html bisexual mmf pics] | [http://homepage.mac.com/hakes1/90.html hardcore teen gangbang] | [http://homepage.mac.com/urethritis/78.html bdsm free porn] | [http://homepage.mac.com/archers2/44.html breast aug gallery] | [http://homepage.mac.com/unsnaps/25.html free cumshot mpg] | [http://homepage.mac.com/twofaced/11.html american eagles hockey-midget] | [http://homepage.mac.com/queering/47.html lesbian titty suckers] | [http://homepage.mac.com/wisp1/4.html mpeg amateur sex] | [http://homepage.mac.com/googol1/68.html gang bang gabby] | [http://homepage.mac.com/gumshoeing/27.html gay teenage porn] | [http://homepage.mac.com/outline3/32.html squirting champions xxx] | [http://homepage.mac.com/salvage3/2.html cowboy boots celebrity] | [http://homepage.mac.com/refinished/2.html orgasm handjob] | [http://homepage.mac.com/coherences/82.html bums fighting] | [http://homepage.mac.com/guts1/32.html old woman orgasm] | [http://homepage.mac.com/tragically/55.html free pee shots] | [http://homepage.mac.com/flatus2/24.html cartoon huge penis] | [http://homepage.mac.com/outline3/25.html cartoon big boob] | [http://homepage.mac.com/covets/19.html gay desperite housewives] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cocteau2/79.html spanking trampling] | [http://homepage.mac.com/urbanest/ gay male midgets]
 [http://homepage.mac.com/ontogenic/75.html teen virgin defloration] | [http://homepage.mac.com/gumshoeing/51.html naked ebony granny] | [http://homepage.mac.com/bowlers/10.html sexy high heels] | [http://homepage.mac.com/diyarbakir/7.html shemales dating sites] | [http://homepage.mac.com/urethritis/83.html handjob movie clips] | [http://homepage.mac.com/vice3/29.html wife facial] | [http://homepage.mac.com/unsnaps/72.html womens peeing] | [http://homepage.mac.com/twofaced/48.html big breast escorts] | [http://homepage.mac.com/coherences/81.html oral group orgy] | [http://homepage.mac.com/safeguard5/19.html female ejaculation examples] | [http://homepage.mac.com/tragically/14.html housewife squirt] | [http://homepage.mac.com/ceaseless/5.html celeb cum shot] | [http://homepage.mac.com/urbanest/15.html creampiecom dvd] | [http://homepage.mac.com/trollop/84.html nss-5 launch date] | [http://homepage.mac.com/unsnaps/96.html muscle fetish dvd] | [http://homepage.mac.com/kettledrum/47.html freaky transexuals] | [http://homepage.mac.com/benignest/21.html dog and shemale] | [http://homepage.mac.com/phenols/16.html blond teen blowjob 2] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cocteau2/39.html nude celeprity photos] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cocteau2/28.html huge gaping cunt] | [http://homepage.mac.com/jezebel3/15.html wet knickers videos] | [http://homepage.mac.com/hakes1/48.html pretty mom blowjob] | [http://homepage.mac.com/googol1/53.html hot funny cartoon] | [http://homepage.mac.com/vice3/42.html blow job queen] | [http://homepage.mac.com/slangs1/33.html chubby chicks pics] | [http://homepage.mac.com/inundation1/76.html girl midget sex] | [http://homepage.mac.com/trollop/10.html sexy guy] | [http://homepage.mac.com/ceaseless/72.html sucking the clitoris] | [http://homepage.mac.com/phenols/58.html toon squirt] | [http://homepage.mac.com/unsnaps/ nude lake cam] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cagliari1/9.html bbw dykes kissing] | [http://homepage.mac.com/coherences/6.html fingering her ass] | [http://homepage.mac.com/tragically/75.html interracial black tits] | [http://homepage.mac.com/proposes/53.html avp 2 movie] | [http://homepage.mac.com/stanch/47.html strapon fem dom] | [http://homepage.mac.com/whisperer1/60.html teenage nude woman] | [http://homepage.mac.com/abrogating/31.html mature latina sluts] | [http://homepage.mac.com/musashi888/37.html femdom male milking] | [http://homepage.mac.com/carbonous/15.html bdsm transsexual] | [http://homepage.mac.com/benignest/74.html wolverton bi sexual] | [http://homepage.mac.com/arabia2/65.html plump nipples] | [http://homepage.mac.com/ceaseless/92.html mission school district 75] | [http://homepage.mac.com/cobol1/62.html glory hole whore] | [http://homepage.mac.com/pursuing/96.html amateur ejaculation] | [http://homepage.mac.com/shone1/62.html cartoon boxing girl] | [http://homepage.mac.com/arabia2/74.html nutragena facial products] | [http://homepage.mac.com/googol1/72.html reality sex mpegs] | [http://homepage.mac.com/jezebel3/66.html red head sluts] | [http://homepage.mac.com/twofaced/64.html sexy blonde plumper] | [http://homepage.mac.com/queering/38.html secret camera upskirt] | [http://homepage.mac.com/seduce1/85.html cute teen pantie] | [http://homepage.mac.com/urbanest/35.html black celeb pussy] | [http://homepage.mac.com/flays/48.html little girl gush] | [http://homepage.mac.com/abrogating/31.html latina whores-mercedes] | [http://homepage.mac.com/covets/92.html gush katif tshirts] | [http://homepage.mac.com/relegates/10.html bi spanking]

__NOTOC__