<!-- #summary About git-cheetah as a submodule of msysGit -->

= Git-Cheetah =

TortoiseCVS (and later TortoiseSVN) set the scene for convenient source code management on Windows.  Not to be left behind, git has the beginnings of a clone, called _git-cheetah_.

(Note: in the meantime, people have started their own extensions, since duplicating efforts is so much fun.)

This page is about setting up git-cheetah as a submodule of msysGit and working with it on other platforms such as Linux (Gnome) and Mac OS X see the section *Git-Cheetah on other Platforms*.

= How to compile/install it in msysGit =

The easiest way is to install msysGit-netinstall, then

* fetch all branches: {{{cd / && git fetch}}}
* then check out the devel branch: {{{git checkout -t origin/devel}}}
* and then update the git-cheetah submodule: {{{git submodule update --init src/git-cheetah}}}

Then you should "make install-user" in {{{/src/git-cheetah/<your_platform>}}} to build and register git-cheetah.

If you want to get the bleeding edge of development (which picked up some speed again thanks to Kirill & Christian), do this:
<code>
       $ cd /src/git-cheetah
       $ git checkout -t origin/master
</code>
and to keep up-to-date, just {{{git pull}}} in that directory.

= Cherry Picking =
By default, your local git-cheetah repo is (and should) be tracking http://repo.or.cz/w/git-cheetah.git. However, it may also be helpful to cherry-pick from Kirill's work.  Here's a recipe to grab "foo" from his fork:

  # Add the fork as a remote, fetch from there and voila, you have all the commits.
<code>
       $ git remote add kirill git://repo.or.cz/git-cheetah/kirill.git
       $ git fetch kirill
</code>
  # Now you can choose to cherry-pick it:
<code>
       $ git cherry-pick foo
</code>

Of course, this recipe works for any remote repo, not just Kirill's fork on repo.or.cz.

= Git-Cheetah on other Platforms (Nautilus, Finder) =
We are currently working on support for Nautilus and Mac OS X.

* On http://www.hvoigt.net/dev/nautilus-extensions-tutor.html you can find a short tutorial and some resources about developing Nautilus (The Gnome Filemanager) Extensions in C.

= In Summary =
It would be really awesome if you just scratched your itches, and submit patches back to git-cheetah!
[[Category:MSysGit]]