<!-- #summary How to install msysGit -->

== What is ''msysGit''? ==

''msysGit'' is the development environment to compile Git for Windows. ''msysGit'' is <u>not</u> ''Git for Windows''; that is an installer which installs Git -- and only Git.

It is easy to see the difference: the installers for Git have the prefix ''Git-'', the msysGit installers have the prefix ''msysGit-''. Another telltale is that the ''msysGit'' installers come in two flavors: ''fullinstall'' and ''netinstall''. Further, ''msysGit'' does not install to ''C:\Program Files'' by default. But ''msysGit'' comes with ''gcc'', the GNU C Compiler.

== How to install it ==

[http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/downloads/list Download] the net installer. Run it. It will download roughly 130 megabyte, including [http://repo.or.cz/w/git/mingw/4msysgit.git/ 4msysgit.git], our fork of [http://git.kernel.org/?p=git/git.git;a=summary git.git], and then compile Git.

=== Further steps ===

Please see [[MSysGit:WorkingOnMsysGit|WorkingOnMsysGit]].

=== If netinstaller fails for you ===

'''Note:''' this is not the preferred way, as it does not set up the repositories for msysGit and git, and does not fetch the histories from repo.or.cz.  However, some people cannot freely access the internet, not even with an HTTP proxy.  If this applies to you, this is the installer we intended for you.  In the olden days of this project, it was the only available package, "msysGit", originally not even an installer, but a 48MB zip file!

* Get msysGit-fullinstall from the [http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/downloads/list Download area].
* Run it, or if you are uncomfortable running executables, get [http://www.7-zip.org 7-Zip] and extract it.  ''(Sidenote: If you are still stuck with WinZip and its nagging screen, why don't you change?  7-Zip can do everything WinZip can, and more, and it is OpenSource, and there is no nagging screen, and it can compress better, and...)''
* Extract anywhere you like (although it was only really tested on C:\msysgit\)
* Go into that directory and double click on msys.bat
* It will compile & install git (only in msysGit, no need to fear), then welcomes you with a note that all is ready.

If you installed using the fullinstaller, but want to turn it as if you had cloned the repositories, please initialize msysGit like this:

* /share/msysGit/initialize.sh

This will initialize a git repository in /.git, and update your complete msysGit to the current version.

== How to restart msysGit ==

So you installed msysGit, but closed the window, and cannot find a way to restart it?  No need to fear, just execute "msys.bat" in the directory you installed to.

To make it more convenient, you can install a QuickLaunch shortcut with "/share/msysGit/add-shortcut.tcl".

== How to remake the installer ==

* Inside MSys, run the script like this: "/share/msysGit-fullinstall/release.sh VERSION"
* The result will be in your home directory.

See also /share/WinGit/HowToRelease.txt

== How to keep up-to-date ==

Please refer to [[MSysGit:UpdatingMSysGit|UpdatingMSysGit]].
[[Category:MSysGit]]