<!-- #summary How to send patches with git send-email on Windows. -->

= Introduction =
When submitting patches to git and/or msysgit, the preferred method is to inline the patch into an e-mail to the mailing list. This can be done through the send-email tool that comes with git.

== Prerequisites ==
This guide assumes the following:
* Git for Windows / msysgit '''1.6.4 (or later).
* An e-mail account that '''supports SMTP.

= Details =
git send-email for Windows currently supports sending e-mail through [http://msmtp.sourceforge.net/ MSMTP], a command-line tool for sending mail. In order to do this, you need to setup msmtp to send e-mail through your e-mail provider's smtp-server.

== Configuring MSMTP ==
The msmtp configuration should be located in ''$HOME/msmtprc.txt'' (bash) or ''%USERPROFILE%\msmtprc.txt'' (cmd.exe). If the file doesn't exist, create it. The details on [http://msmtp.sourceforge.net/doc/msmtp.html#Configuration-files how to setup this configuration file] can be found in the [http://msmtp.sourceforge.net/doc/msmtp.html MSMTP Documentation].

=== Example MSMTP configuration for GMail ===
<pre><nowiki>
# setup some defaults
defaults
tls_trust_file c:/msysgit/mingw/bin/curl-ca-bundle.crt
logfile ~/.msmtp.log

# create an account called "default"
account default

# setup server host and port
host smtp.gmail.com
port 587

# enable TLS
tls on

# set FROM address
from username@gmail.com

# setup authentication
auth on
user username@gmail.com
</nowiki></pre>
Replace "username" with your own GMail username.

== Testing MSMTP ==
Execute the command <code>echo "test" | msmtp user@host</code> on the command line (where "user@host" should be your own e-mail address).  This should work both from bash and cmd.exe. If you've set up msmtp to use authentication, you should get a password promtp. The program should exit cleanly, and an e-mail (with empty subject and the body "test") should have been sent to your e-mail account. If you don't get any e-mail, please consult the MSMTP Documentation.

== Configuring git send-email ==
The Git for Windows installer should setup sendemail.smtpserver to "/mingw/bin/msmtp.exe". This can be verified by executing the command <code>git config sendemail.smtpserver</code>. If this hasn't been set up yet, execute <code>git config --global sendemail.smtpserver /mingw/bin/msmtp.exe</code>

== Testing git send-email ==
Go to a git-repo, and execute the following command:

<pre><nowiki>
git send-email --suppress-cc=all --to user@host HEAD^
</nowiki></pre>

(where user@host is replaced with your e-mail address). This should send the most recent patch from that repo to your e-mail account.

= Troubleshooting =
== Unable to initialize SMTP ==
<pre><nowiki>
Unable to initialize SMTP properly.  Is there something wrong with your config?
at C:\msysgit/libexec/git-core/git-send-email line 929, <FIN> line 4.
</nowiki></pre>
This error is caused by <code>git send-email</code> when it's trying to send the e-mail directly, and not through ESMTP. This can be caused either by lacking git-config, or by your git installation not being up to date.
[[Category:MSysGit]]
[http://www.online-poker-spielen.biz/ poker online spielen]