Git's application to Google's Summer of Code 2009.

The application questions can be found on
[http://socghop.appspot.com/org_app/apply/google/gsoc2009 socghop].  Also the published [http://groups.google.com/group/google-summer-of-code-announce/web/notes-on-organization-selection-criteria notes on organization selection] may be of interest.

Shawn Pearce has volunteered to submit the application and serve
as our group's primary contact.

'' Link ID ''

git

'' Group Name ''

Git Development Community

'' Home Page URL ''

[[http://git-scm.com/]]

'' Public Email ''

git@vger.kernel.org

'' Description ''

As Git approaches its fourth anniversary, it is now the revision
control system of choice for many of the largest and most successful
open source projects, including the Linux kernel and at least twelve
other Google Summer of Code 2008 projects:  BlueZ, Cairo, [[DragonFly]] BSD,
Etherboot, One Laptop Per Child, Perl, Samba, Thousand Parsec, The Wine
Project, VideoLAN, XMMS2, and X.org.

This achievement is the product of the lively Git development
community, a loose-knit team of developers, technical writers, and
end users with a passion for high quality open-source development.

'' Why is your group applying to participate? What do you hope to gain by participating? ''

During GSoC 2007 Git had two successful student projects.  Although
both students contributed useful code to the community, the biggest
benefit we received was the increased visibility and the addition of
new long-term contributors.

During GSoC 2008, Git had 6 students, 5 of which succeeded.  We gained two
regular contributors, and the other students are still seen on the mailing
list sometimes.  Even the student we had to fail continues working on
his project.

By participating in GSoC 2009 the Git community hopes to attract
more new talent to our community, and convert that talent into
long-term contributors and high-quality enhancements to Git.

'' What is the main public mailing list for your group? ''

git@vger.kernel.org

'' What is the main IRC channel for your group? ''

<!-- #git (on freenode)
 -->

'' What criteria do you use to select the members of your group?  Please be as specific as possible. ''

''(note: they mean "mentors" here, but the language is wrong due to it coming from Melange)''

All mentors volunteered for the specific project(s) that they could
contribute the most to.  All mentors are active contributors within
the Git development community.

Active contributors are defined to be those who have submitted and
have had accepted into a shipped release a substantial amount of
new code or fixes within the last 4 months (Nov 2008 - Mar 2009).
Substantial amount of code is defined to be equal in size (or
larger) to what might be reasonably expected of a student working
on a Google Summer of Code project.

All mentors are well known within the Git development community
for their accomplishments and contributions.

'' Has your group participated previously?  If so, please summarize your involvement and any past successes and failures. ''

During GSoC 2007 we had two student projects ("GIT library project",
"Replace most core scripts with C versions") mentored by two of our
active developers.  Both projects were completed successfully, but
only one merged its code into the main project.

In 2008, we had six projects: "[[GitTorrent]] - implement a [[BitTorrent]]
like protocol to exchange Git repositories", "git-statistics - mine
the commit history of a project and identify 'good' changes from 'bad'
changes", "Gitweb caching - a project that allows gitweb, our web
interface, to scale better", "Eclipse plugin push support",
"builtin-merge - reimplement git-merge in C", and "git-sequencer -
a low-level patch-application engine".

While we had to fail the student working on [[GitTorrent]], he still
continues to work on the project from time to time.

The git-statistics project was finished, but it was decided that
it is independent enough to be maintained separately, the better
to gain support for other source code management tools.  This student
is an active member of the Git community, even if he is also an
active contributor to the Melange project.

The Eclipse plugin and builtin-merge projects were integrated into
the mainline source code.  The latter student remains a very
active contributor to our project.

While the Gitweb caching and the git-sequencer project were finished
in time, neither of them were fully integrated into our mainline
source code yet.  However, both students have a two-digit number of
commits in our repository.

The biggest challenge turned out to be moving the communications with some
of the students from private to public.  For example, the Gitweb caching
and the [[GitTorrent]] projects could have shared some effort, and in
general, the students did not benefit from the competence of the
non-mentor community members as much as they could have.

'' If your group has not previously participated, have you applied in the past?  If so, for what sort of participation? ''

N/A

'' What license does your project use? ''

GPL (GNU Public License), version 2

'' What is the URL for your ideas page? ''

[[http://git.or.cz/gitwiki/SoC2009Ideas]]

'' What is the main development mailing list for your group? ''

git@vger.kernel.org

'' What is the application template you would like contributors to your organization to use. ''

''(note: they mean students here, but its Melange... so...)''

[[http://git.or.cz/gitwiki/SoC2008Template]]

'' What is your plan for dealing with disappearing contributors? ''

''(note: they mean students here, but its Melange... so...)''

Every reasonable effort will be made to maintain contact with
students and ensure they are making progress throughout the summer.

In the unfortunate event that a student abandons and does not
complete his/her GSoC project, the Git community will try to pick up
and continue the work without the student.  This is one reason why we
will require frequent publishing of project materials to repo.or.cz.

Students will also be strongly encouraged by our mentors to work
through their project by completing several small milestones
throughout the summer.  This strategy of project organization will
help students to feel like they have accomplished something useful
sooner, as well as making it easier for the Git community to pick
up an abandoned project.

'' What is your plan for dealing with disappearing members? ''

''(note: they mean mentors here, but its Melange... so...)''

Most of our suggested projects have more than one mentor available.
As a community we plan on making sure all of the active projects have
at least two mentors willing and available to work with the student,
reducing the likelihood that the project becomes mentor-less during
GSoC '09.

In the unlikely event that a mentor disappears during the summer
another mentor will be arranged to step in.  The Git community
has plenty of good people within that would be more than happy to
help a student finish their project.  It is very probable that the
replacement mentor would already be familiar with the student and
the project, as many community members routinely review code and
discussions on the mailing list.

''' What steps will you take to encourage contributors to interact with
your project's community before, during and after the program? '''

''(note: they mean students here, but its Melange... so...)''

Students will be required to join the main development mailing
list, and post their patches for discussion to same.  All current
contributors already do this, so students will see the experienced
hands performing the same tasks, and will therefore be able to learn
by example.  We feel that the list based discussions will help the
students to become, and stay, a member of the community.

Mailing list traffic is currently around 80-100 messages per day,
and is focused on Git feature development.  Keeping current by
at least skimming list messages is an important part of the Git
development process.

Students will be required to post their work as a Git repository on
repo.or.cz (an open community hosting server), or on another publicly
available server, so that their work is immediately available for
everyone to review, experiment with, and make use of.  Nearly all
members of the Git community post their active work to repo.or.cz
or similar servers.

Mentors will also exchange email with students on at least a
weekly basis, if not more frequently.  Students will be required
to provide weekly progress reports back to their mentors, so that
the mentors are aware of the tasks that a student might be stuck on
or are having difficulty with.  The intent of the progress reports
is to give the mentors a chance to provide suggestions for problem
resolution back to the student.

Frequent email and IRC interaction with mentors and other developers
will be strongly encouraged by suggesting students post their
questions and ideas to the mailing list, and to discuss them on #git.
Most developers either already hold "office-hours" on IRC, or have
agreed to do so during GSoC '09.

''' What will you do to ensure that your accepted contributors stick with
the project after the program concludes? '''

''(note: they mean students here, but its Melange... so...)''

GSoC will be a good introduction to Git (both the technology and the
community) for the students.  Once they know Git and are "hooked",
we are confident they won't easily leave the arena, for a number
of reasons.

The interaction between community members has always been very
friendly, and new people are always warmly welcomed; especially
those with interesting new ideas and viewpoints.  Jovial working
friendships have been easily formed between the community members,
and students will most certainly also be warmly welcomed into
that environment.

Hacking on Git is an excellent way to hone one's development skills,
as the community is filled with a wide range of very experienced
programmers who are ready and willing to help a contributor improve
the quality of their work.  We hope that students will realize this
unique opportunity during GSoC and continue staying active within
the community even after GSoC '09 completes, just like our GSoC
'08 students did.

'' Backup organization administrator? ''

Johannes Schindelin

__NOTOC__