<b>Table of Contents:</b>
<<<!-- ! TOC here -->(2)>>
----
= Git Community projects =

This year Git was fortunate enough to receive funding for 6 students,
and we are looking forward to the successful completion of the
following interesting projects:

== [[GitTorrent]] ==
<b>Student:</b> Joshua Roys <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  Sam Vilain  <<BR>>

Josh and Sam will be working to implement native git object
transport via a peer-to-peer system, potentially allowing
popular projects such as the linux kernel to be available
via more servers than just git.kernel.org.

<b>Idea:</b> [[SoC2008Ideas#GitTorrent|[[GitTorrent]]]] at SoC2008Ideas <<BR>>
<b>Homepage:</b> [[http://gittorrent.utsl.gen.nz/rfc.html|RFC -- GitTorrent Protocol -- GTP/0.1]] <<BR>>
<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/git/appinfo.html?csaid=F544F0DAA82AFDFC|GitTorrent]] <<BR>>
<b>Google Code:</b> [[http://code.google.com/p/gittorrent/|GitTorrent - Peer-to-peer Protocol for Synchronizing of Git Repositories]] page at Google Code. <<BR>>
<b>Gitweb:</b> 
* http://utsl.gen.nz/gitweb/?p=VCS-Git-Torrent
* http://repo.or.cz/w/VCS-Git-Torrent.git (mirror)
<b>Pull:</b> git://utsl.gen.nz/VCS-Git-Torrent <<BR>>
<b>Mailing list:</b> <<[[MailTo]](gittorrent@lists.utsl.gen.nz)>> ([[http://lists.utsl.gen.nz/mailman/listinfo.cgi/gittorrent|mailman]], [[http://lists.utsl.gen.nz/pipermail/gittorrent/|archives]])

== git-statistics ([[GitStats]]) ==
<b>Student:</b> Sverre Rabbelier <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  David Symonds    <<BR>>

Sverre and David are looking to mine the commit history of
a project and identify "good" changes from "bad" changes.
Such information may help maintainers to better judge the
risk associated with new changes, and help new contributers
to more quickly locate individuals who are experienced in
a particular section of code (e.g. automatically identify
module maintainers).

<b>Idea:</b> [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/77728|[SoC RFC] git statistics - information about commits]] thread on git mailing list <<BR>>
<b>Homepage:</b> [[http://alturin.googlepages.com/gsoc2008|Sverre Rabbelier GSoC2008 page]] (PDFs) <<BR>>
<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/git/appinfo.html?csaid=C73DCF4CEBF4295D|git statistics]] <<BR>>
<b>Gitweb:</b> http://repo.or.cz/w/git-stats.git <<BR>>
<b>See also:</b> [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/81534|[RFC] Use cases for 'git statistics']] thread on git mailing list.

<b>Status:</b> [[http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/90691|[ANNOUNCE] [[GitStats]] development finished (WRT GSoC)]]. As a separate tool it is not expected to be merged in.

== Gitweb caching ==
<b>Student:</b> Lea Wiemann           <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  John 'warthog' Hawley <<BR>> 

Lea and John will be working to port the caching gitweb fork
that runs on kernel.org back into the main tree, as well as
implementing even more improved caching for really large sites
like kernel.org, repo.or.cz, or anyone else using gitweb for
a large number of repositories and users.

<b>Idea:</b> [[SoC2008Ideas#gitweb-caching|Gitweb caching]] at SoC2008Ideas <<BR>>
<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/git/appinfo.html?csaid=C5B7544DDE4909C3|Gitweb caching]] <<BR>>
<b>Gitweb:</b> http://repo.or.cz/w/git/gitweb-caching.git <<BR>>
<b>See also:</b> [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/77529|[RFD] Gitweb caching]] thread, parts 1-3, by Jakub Narebski

<b>Status:</b> Done, second round of review: [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/88068/focus=92875|Re: [PATCH 0/3] Git::Repo API and gitweb caching]].  <i>(Unfortunately sending it as huge, large change patches doesn't help reviewability.)</i>

== Eclipse plugin push support ==
<b>Student:</b> Marek Zawirski  <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  Shawn O. Pearce <<BR>>

Marek and Shawn will be working to implement pack generation
in jgit, allowing the 100% native Java implementation of Git
to create pack files locally, as well as upload pack files to
a remote repository over the native Git transport.  Marek is
also looking forward to improving some of the user interface
aspects of the Eclipse Git team provider plugin.

<b>Idea:</b> [[SoC2008Ideas#Eclipse|Git Eclipse Plugin]] at SoC2008Ideas <<BR>>
<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/git/appinfo.html?csaid=DD669FC01FC5F07B|Push operation implementation and GUI improvements for egit Eclipse plugin]] <<BR>>
<b>Gitweb:</b> http://repo.or.cz/w/egit/zawir.git

<b>Status:</b> [[http://repo.or.cz/w/egit.git?a=commit;h=305060a576e2320c1fb82beb3b630f452001dae7|Merged in]]

== git-merge builtin ==
<b>Student:</b> Miklos Vajna        <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  Johannes Schindelin <<BR>>

Miklos ported the git-merge shell script
to C, permitting it to make use of builtin functions like
merge base computation, and making the program overall more
portable to non-POSIX systems.  Porting some of the popular
merge strategies (e.g. git-merge-ours) will be the work of the
second half of the GSoC project, as Miklos was too fast with
the principal goal.

<b>Idea:</b> [[SoC2008Ideas#builtin-merge|Make git-merge and helpers Builtins]] at SoC2008Ideas <<BR>>
<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/git/appinfo.html?csaid=C6691859F6E209E8|Make git-merge Builtin]] <<BR>>
<b>Gitweb:</b> http://repo.or.cz/w/git/vmiklos.git

<b>Status:</b> [[http://repo.or.cz/w/alt-git.git?a=commit;h=1c7b76be7d620bbaf2e6b8417f04012326bbb9df|Merged in]]

== git-sequencer ==
<b>Student:</b> Stephan Beyer                     <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  Christian Couder, Daniel Barkalow <<BR>>

Stephan, Christian and Daniel will be working to port the
current "git rebase --interactive" to C, as well as create
a general "commit sequencer" that can be used as the backing
implementation for "git-am", all three forms of "git-rebase",
and possibly implement an "interactive rebase GUI" within
git-gui and/or gitk.

<b>Idea:</b> [[SoC2008Ideas#git-sequencer|Implement git-sequencer]] at SoC2008Ideas <<BR>>
<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/git/appinfo.html?csaid=92728710F52338C1|implement git-sequencer]] <<BR>>
<b>Gitweb:</b> http://repo.or.cz/w/git/sbeyer.git <<BR>>
<b>See also:</b> 
* [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/80240|Speed up git-svn fetch]] thread on git mailing list by Adam Roben, about git-cat-file sequencer.
* [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/84230|[RFC] git-sequencer.txt]] post on git mailing list by Stephan Beyer.

----
= Foreign projects =
== Git plugin for Anjuta IDE ==

Support for <i>Git</i> projects in [[http://anjuta.sourceforge.net/|Anjuta IDE]]

<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/gnome/appinfo.html?csaid=674D114D9E574B36|Git Version Control Plugin for the Anjuta IDE]] <<BR>>
<b>Idea:</b>  [[http://live.gnome.org/SummerOfCode2008/Ideas/[[AnjutaGit]]|Anjuta GIT plugin]] at [[http://live.gnome.org/Home|live.gnome.org]] wiki <<BR>>
<b>Organization:</b> [[http://www.gnome.org/|GNOME]] ([[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/gnome/about.html|organization SoC info]]) <<BR>>
<b>Student:</b> James R. Liggett <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  Naba Kumar       <<BR>>
<b>Gitweb:</b> http://repo.or.cz/w/anjuta-git-plugin.git (probably) <<BR>>

== KDevelop DVCS support ==

The purpose of project is to supply [[http://www.kdevelop.org/|KDevelop]] with generic DVCS support, implement UI support for VCSs and test its functionality on the example of <i>Git</i>.

<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/kde/appinfo.html?csaid=9A4258C09B92FE9E|KDevelop DVCS(VCS) support]] <<BR>>
<b>Organization:</b> [[http://www.kde.org/|KDE]] ([[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/kde/about.html|organization SoC info]]) <<BR>>
<b>Student:</b> Evgeniy Ivanov <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  Oleksandr Dymo <<BR>>
<b>Gitweb:</b>  http://repo.or.cz/w/kdevelopdvcssupport.git <<BR>>
<b>See also:</b> [[http://www.ericsink.com/scm/scm_ide_integration.html|Eric Sink's Source Control HOWTO: Chapter 9: Source Control Integration with IDEs]] (about advantages and disadvantages of SCM <-> IDE integration; bit outdated wrt. SCMs side).

== Git# implementation ==

There are <i>two</i> projects dealing with fully managed Git implementation (rewrite in C# / Git applications in .NET), both from [[http://www.mono-project.com/|Mono]] project.

<b>Organization:</b> [[http://www.mono-project.com/|Mono Project]] ([[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/mono/about.html|organization SoC info]]) <<BR>>
<b>Idea:</b> [[http://www.mono-project.com/StudentProjects#GIT.23_implementation|Class Libraries and Bindings: GIT# implementation]]

<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/mono/appinfo.html?csaid=E6D8A717A88A7632|Git# Full Managed Git Implementation]] <<BR>>
<b>Student:</b> Hector Enrique Gomez Morales <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  Massimiliano Mantione        <<BR>>

<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/mono/appinfo.html?csaid=F2E71A4D93E7EF37|Git# implementation]] <<BR>>
<b>Student:</b> Igor Guerrero Fonseca <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  Massimiliano Mantione <<BR>>

<b>Repository:</b> http://code.google.com/p/mono-soc-2008/source/browse/ git-sharp project.

<b>Status:</b> [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/100736/focus=7263|Nothing came out of it]]. One student was going to focus on the front-end, the other on the back-end.

== [[DocBox]] project ==

DocBox sits on top of RDoc, uses wiki-like interface, and makes use of either <i>Git</i> or SVN version control systems.

<b>SoC page:</b> [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/ruby/appinfo.html?csaid=E7E49508C605278D|DocBox: A Wiki frontend to Documentation]] <<BR>>
<b>Idea:</b>     See "RDoc wiki" in [[http://rubycentral.com/projects/gsoc-2008/ideas-for-gsoc-2008|Ruby Central Project Ideas for GSoC 2008]] <<BR>>
<b>Organization:</b> [[http://rubycentral.org/|Ruby Central]] ([[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/ruby/about.html|organization SoC info]]) <<BR>>
<b>Student:</b> Ian Ownbey       <<BR>>
<b>Mentor:</b>  Jeremy McAnally  <<BR>>

----
----
= References =
* [[http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/80050|Welcome to Git's GSoC 2008!]] post by Shawn O. Pearce (administrator for GSoC 2008 for git) on git mailing list
* [[http://code.google.com/soc/2008/git/about.html|Git Development Community GSoC 2008]] page
* [[SoC2008MidtermSummary]]
* Git mailing list:
** [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/75186|Google Summer of Code 2008]] thread (before beginning)
** [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/87670|[GSoC] What is status of Git's Google Summer of Code 2008 projects?]]
** [[http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/90294|Summer of Code 2008 Midterm Summary]] post by Shawn O. Pearce
** [[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/94959|[GSoC] Git projects for Google Summer of Code 2008 final evaluation]]
* Open Source at Google blog: posts labelled [[http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/search/label/git|git]]
** [[http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2008/08/git-and-google-summer-of-code.html|Git and Google Summer of Code]] by Shawn Pearce
** [[http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2008/07/getting-giddy-with-git.html|Getting Giddy with Git]] by Leslie Hawthorn (Episode 18 of the Google Summer of Code podcast, with Shawn Pearce and Johannes Schindelin)

__NOTOC__