''Table of Contents:''
__TOC__
----
= Git Community projects =

See also [http://socghop.appspot.com/org/home/google/gsoc2010/git the Git GSoC2010 Google page].

This year Git received funding for 4 students,
and we are looking forward to the successful completion of the
following interesting projects:

== Native SVN support in git ==
''Student:'' Ramkumar Ramachandra ([http://github.com/artagnon artagnon] on GitHub)<BR>
''Mentor:''  Sverre Rabbelier ([http://github.com/SRabbelier SRabbelier] on GitHub)<BR>

The objective of git-remote-svn is to provide native interaction with SVN repositories in Git, the motivation for which comes from the shortcomings of git-svn. I intend to do this by building a remote helper for SVN. Several good SVN exporters already exist, and using one of them with a remote helper should eliminate a lot of the plumbing that git-svn tackles by hand. Also, using a remote helper to interact will provide a simple and natural UI at no additional cost.

''Programming language:'' C <BR>
''SoC page:'' [http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/student_project/show/google/gsoc2010/git/t127230759234 Native SVN support in Git] <BR>
''Git repository:''
* http://repo.or.cz/w/git/artagnon.git (web interface)
''Topics in review:''<BR>
''Topics merged:''<BR>
* [http://article.gmane.org/gmane.comp.version-control.git/145194 &#91;PATCH 0/5&#93; Improve remote helper documentation]

''Progress report / status:'' Started.

== Completing libgit2 ==
''Student:'' Vincent Marti<BR>
''Mentor:''  Scott Chacon <BR>

The goal of this application is the completion of several key features which the libgit2 library (a stand-alone git library which is being written from scratch) is currently lacking, and which are required to interoperate with existing git repositories, namely, the revision walking mechanism and the functionality for index and reference manipulation. 

''Idea:'' [[SoC2010Ideas#Complete_libgit2|Complete libgit2]] on [[SoC2010Ideas]] page <BR>
''Programming language:'' C <BR>
''SoC page:'' [http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/student_project/show/google/gsoc2010/git/t127230759278 Complete libgit2] <BR>
''Git repository (web interface):''
* http://repo.or.cz/w/libgit2.git (official)

''Git repository (for cloning):''
* git://repo.or.cz/libgit2.git (official)

''Progress reports / status:''

== Line level history browser ==
''Student:'' Bo Yang<BR>
''Mentor:''  Thomas Rast<BR>

This project will add a set of new features to 'git log' command. Those features will allow git users to track change history of any lines of source files. The goal of this project is to provide users with the ability to get insight into the code at line level.

''Idea:'' [[SoC2010Ideas#Line-level_history_browser|Line-level history browser]] on [[SoC2010Ideas]] page <BR>
''Programming language:'' C <BR>
''SoC page:'' [http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/student_project/show/google/gsoc2010/git/t127230759328 Line-level history browser] <BR>

''Git repository for this project:''
* http://repo.or.cz/w/line.git
The master branch of the repo is for the project.

''Progress reports / status:'' <BR>

== Integrated Web Client for git ==
''Student:'' Pavan Kumar Sankara<BR>
''Mentor:''  Christian Couder<BR>

This proposal aims at creating a multi-purpose HTML based GUI client for git, the web-based equivalent of git-gui (like gitweb and git-instaweb are web-based equivalents of gitk).

''Programming language:'' ? <BR>
''SoC page:'' [http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/student_project/show/google/gsoc2010/git/t127230759366 Integrated Web Client for git]  <BR>

''Progress reports / status:'' <BR>

= Foreign projects =

== Eclipse Foundation: Improve Eclipse Git Integration ==

''SoC Page:'' [http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/student_project/show/google/gsoc2010/eclipse/t127230758145 Improve Eclipse Git Integration] <BR>


== Apache Software Foundation: Subversion: Add support for Git/Mercurial style unidiff format extensions ==

''SoC Page:'' [http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/student_project/show/google/gsoc2010/apache/t127230758414 Subversion: Add support for Git/Mercurial style unidiff format extensions] <BR>
__NOTOC__