<!-- ## Please edit system and help pages ONLY in the moinmaster wiki! For more
 -->
<!-- ## information, please see [[MoinMaster]]:[[MoinPagesEditorGroup]].
 -->
<!-- ##master-page:[[WikiSandBox]]
 -->
<!-- #format wiki
 -->
<!-- #language en
 -->
Please feel free to experiment here, after the four dashes below... and please do <b>NOT</b> create new pages without any meaningful content just to try it out!

<b>Tip:</b> Shift-click "[[HelpOnEditing]]" to open a second window with the help pages.

----

== Test Section ==
hmm... how would one go about creating a user account? the [[UserPreferences]] page behind the login link seems to be br0ken.

* [[GitSurvey]], [[Git]], [[Git]] - wikipedia-like syntax
* [[GitSurvey|surve]] - wikipedia-like pipe link
* <code><nowiki>backticks typewriter</nowiki></code>
* Camel<code><nowiki></nowiki></code>Case
== Formatting ==
<i>italic</i> <b>bold</b> <code><nowiki>typewriter</nowiki></code>

<code><nowiki>backtick typewriter</nowiki></code> (configurable)

<span style="font-size: larger">bigger </span><span style="font-size: smaller">smaller </span>

<pre><nowiki>
preformatted some more
and some more lines too
</nowiki></pre>
<pre><nowiki>
#!python
def syntax(highlight):
    print "on"
    return None
</nowiki></pre>
<pre><nowiki>
#!java
  public void main(String[] args]){
     System.out.println("Hello world!");
	System.out.println("Hello anderworld too!");
  }
</nowiki></pre>
== Linking ==
[[a|b]]

[[Tilly dally|tilly dally]]

[[Git|the best thing]]

[[HelpOnEditing]]

<b>Inter<code><nowiki></nowiki></code>Wiki</b> links:

* <code><nowiki>[[MoinMoin]]:[[InterWiki]]</nowiki></code> -> [[MoinMoin]]:[[InterWiki]]
* <code><nowiki>[[MoinMoin:[[InterWiki]]|[[InterWiki]]] on [[MoinMoin]]]</nowiki></code> -> [[MoinMoin:[[InterWiki]]|[[InterWiki]] on [[MoinMoin]]]]
* <code><nowiki>[[WikiPedia:Subversion]</nowiki></code>|-> [[WikiPedia:Subversion|wiki:[[WikiPedia]]]:Subversion]]
* <code><nowiki>[[WikiPedia:Subversion|Subversion]]</nowiki></code> -> [[WikiPedia]]:Subversion
http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de/ [[http://www.python.org/|Python]]

someone@the.inter.net

[[PythonFaq]]:[[RecentChanges]] = [[PythonFaq:[[RecentChanges]]|wiki:[[PythonFaq]]:[[RecentChanges]]]] with <code><nowiki>.htp</nowiki></code> extension.

=== Image Link ===
<<http://c2.com/sig/wiki.gif>>

== Smileys ==
/!\ Alert

== Lists ==
=== Bullet ===
* first
*# nested and numbered
*# numbered lists are renumbered
* second
* third blockquote
** deeper
"Long item" list

* I've been so busy with other projects. I didn't realize so many interfaces exist. Thanks to this survey I'll spend some time checking out the wiki for the other interfaces.<<BR>>At the 'Solutions Linux 2007' exhibition in Paris I have been.
 I didn't even know about any of the new git features listed in question 43.<<BR>>I need to get an up to date version as there are things mentioned in this survey that I don't know about.
=== Glossary ===
; Term : Definition
=== Drawing ===
<<drawing:mytest>>

=== Macros ===

<code><nowiki>{{BR</nowiki></code>}} (with media4wiki)
a <<BR>> b

<code><nowiki><br></nowiki></code> (classic MoinMoin)
a <<BR>> b

= Heading 1 =
== Heading 2 ==
=== Heading 3 ===
==== Heading 4 ====
= IRC Log test =
<pre><nowiki>
#!irc
(23:18) <     jroes> ah
(23:19) <     jroes> hm, i like the way {{{ works, but i was hoping the lines would wrap
(23:21) -!- gpciceri [~gpciceri@host181-130.pool8248.interbusiness.it] has quit [Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
(23:36) < ThomasWal> you could also write a parser or processor
(23:38) <     jroes> i could?
(23:38) <     jroes> would that require modification on the moin end though?
(23:38) <     jroes> i cant change the wiki myself :x
(23:39) < ThomasWal> parsers and processors are plugable
(23:39) < ThomasWal> so you dont need to change the core code
(23:40) < ThomasWal> you need to copy it to the wiki data directory though
(23:40) <     jroes> well, what i meant to say was that i dont have access to the box running the wiki
(23:40) < ThomasWal> then this is no option
(23:40) <     jroes> yeah :/
(23:42) <HonestDave> How queer.
</nowiki></pre>
= Tables =
== CSV table ==
<pre><nowiki>
#!CSV
Answer;                         Count
very easy;                      38
easy;                           136
reasonably;                     318
hard;                           131
very hard;                      33
Base;                           656 / 683
Total (sum);                    656
</nowiki></pre>
== Styled table ==
<!-- ## comment?
 -->
* 
{| border="1" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="0"
| <tablewidth="60%" tablestyle="FONT-SIZE: smaller"rowbgcolor="#ffffcc" rowstyle="FONT-WEIGHT: bold">Answer 
| Count 
| 
|}
 ||<6 0 %>very easy ||38 ||
 ||easy<<[[FootNote]](auto: easy)>> ||136 ||
 ||||<rowbgcolor="#ffffdd" rowstyle="FONT-STYLE: italic">inner header ||
 ||reasonably ||318 ||
 |||| ||
 ||hard<<[[FootNote]](auto: hard)>> ||131 ||
 ||<rowstyle="BORDER-TOP-STYLE: dotted">hard ||131 ||
 ||hard ||131 ||
 |||| ||
 ||hard [[[#fn_a|(a)]]] ||131 ||
 ||very hard[[[#fn_b|<sup>b</sup>]]] ||33 ||
 ||<rowbgcolor="#ccffff" rowstyle="FONT-WEIGHT: bold; FONT-STYLE: italic">Base ||656 / 683 ||
 ||<rowbgcolor="#ccffff" rowstyle="FONT-WEIGHT: bold; FONT-STYLE: italic">Total (sum) ||656 ||
<b>Footnotes (macro):</b> <<[[FootNote]]>> <b>Footnotes (by hand):</b>

* <b>a)</b> <<Anchor(fn_a)>> hard
* <b>b)</b> <<Anchor(fn_b)>> very hard
Some trailing text

== More tables ==
<!-- ##----------------------------------------------------
 -->
{| border="1" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="0"
| <rowbgcolor="#ffffcc" rowstyle="FONT-WEIGHT: bold"|2>Answer 
|colspan="2" |<style="TEXT-ALIGN: center">2006 
|colspan="2" |<style="TEXT-ALIGN: center">2007 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ffffcc" rowstyle="FONT-WEIGHT: bold">Count 
| % sum 
| Count 
| %sum 
| 
|-
| very easy 
| 6 
| 5.1% 
| 38 
| 5.7% 
| 
|-
| easy 
| 21 
| 17.9% 
| 136 
| 20.4% 
| 
|-
| reasonably 
| 64 
| 54.4% 
| 318 
| 47.7% 
| 
|-
| hard 
| 23 
| 19.6% 
| 131 
| 19.8% 
| 
|-
| very hard 
| 3 
| 2.6% 
| 33 
| 5.0% 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ccffff" rowstyle="FONT-WEIGHT: bold; FONT-STYLE: italic">Base 
|colspan="2" |<style="TEXT-ALIGN: center">117 
|colspan="2" |<style="TEXT-ALIGN: center">683 
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ccffff" rowstyle="FONT-WEIGHT: bold; FONT-STYLE: italic">Total (sum) 
| 117 
| 100% 
| 656 
| 100% 
| 

__NOTOC__