= Wishlist =

In November 2006 there were a lot of emails to the git mailing list with suggestions for cleaning up git's user interface, some wishes and some "if I could do it all again" messages.  This page is an attempt to gather those wishes into one place.

I've put an attribution of the wish to the person who wrote the email I found it in - if it wasn't originally their idea, and it was yours, I apologise, it's my fault, not theirs.  I've not been comprehensive by any means, ideas that were liked are more likely to be here.

* It would be really nice if none of the "common" commands had a hyphen in them (Carl Worth)
* Introduce a -i option for git-commit making it commit the state in the index. Then git-commit with no options could work like "git-commit -a" does now. (Carl Worth)
* Have --merge arguments to git-pull, and --fetch argument to git-merge. (Jakub Narebski)
* I would kind of like to see "git poll" -- visit all remote branches, fetching objects and tags into the local repository, so that I can inspect changes off-line and merge, cherry-pick, etc. to my heart's content. (Michael K Edwards)
* "pull/push/fetch" have undesired confusion depending on where people learned the term.  I'd perhaps vote for replacing fetch with download and push with upload. (Junio C Hamono)
* <code><nowiki>git diff upstream</nowiki></code> and <code><nowiki>git merge upstream#next</nowiki></code> would refer to the <code><nowiki>.git/remotes/upstream</nowiki></code> shortcut file to better hide remote tracking branches.  (Junio C Hamono)
* "pull" and "push" should be symmetrical operations.  (Junio C Hamono) (Nicholas Pitre) (Andy Parkins)
* Remote branch handling should become more straight forward.  (Nicholas Pitre)
* Separate namespace for "new" interface.  "gh" instead of "git" primarily to deal with stale documentation people would find googling.  (Junio C Hamano)
* Don't use the name "origin" twice.  In fact, don't use it at all.  In a distributed system there is no such thing as a true origin.  (Andy Parkins)
* There's no easy way to do a <code><nowiki>git reset --hard</nowiki></code> while doing a <code><nowiki>git checkout</nowiki></code> style merge. (linux at horizon.com)
* "bisect" is reserved as a branch name but not clearly documented as such. (linux at horizon.com)
* The requirement that HEAD point to refs/heads were enforced when checking in rather than checking out. (linux at horizon.com)
* Put non-head ref in HEAD, but allow to commit only if the prefix is refs/heads/. (Jakub Narebski)
* With ref logs, you've just re-invented the CVS problem of associating history with a name. (linux at horizon.com)
* It would be nice to have command to rename branches (with its reflog) and to rename tags (even in their packed format). <i>Some patches sent to git mailing list</i> (Jakub Narebski)
* Everybody hates the fact that inverse of push is fetch not pull. Use download/upload/join instead of fetch/push/merge.  (Junio C Hamano)
* Unified "fetch" and "push" across backends.  (Junio C Hamano)

= Granted Wishes =

The following items used to be classified as wishes above, but a brave soul or two took it upon themselves to submit working patches, which were subsequently accepted.  Thanks to all!

* Allow a usage of "git merge <branch>" instead of the awkward "git pull . <branch>". (Carl Worth)
* Less visible "remoteness" of remote branches.  Separate remotes as the default layout.  (Junio C Hamano)
* Support <code><nowiki>Pull: refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/default/*</nowiki></code> in remotes shortcut files
* <code><nowiki>git checkout -f -m</nowiki></code> is meaningless (-f overrides -m), but doesn't complain. (linux at horizon.com)
* The reflog stuff was often trumpeted in the recent git vs. bzr debate. Why is that very useful functionality buried in a config file option and not just stored by default?  (Carl Worth)
* Make "git init" an alias for "git init-db". (Nicholas Pitre)
 [http://vibrator.1sweethost.com/38.html milf sex samples] | [http://dissuasive.ibnsites.com/24.html thai mature porn] | [http://hermetical.741.com/92.html naturist piss] | [http://assayer.o-f.com/11.html webcam chat xxx] | [http://iterated.1accesshost.com/69.html webcam guy cock] | [http://homepage.mac.com/keepings/91.html busty teen movie] | [http://solders.freewebsitehosting.com/53.html fucking fat women 01] | [http://squad.greatnow.com/62.html vibrator blowjob] | [http://obbligati.kogaryu.com/70.html webcam blowjob] | [http://homepage.mac.com/massages1/32.html live montreal webcam] | [http://homepage.mac.com/creamery2/7.html big foot webcam] | [http://bedchamber.freewebpages.org/89.html sissy panties spanking] | [http://istrian.1sweethost.com/9.html convince wife threesome] | [http://emotional.o-f.com/63.html ebony hottie] | [http://homepage.mac.com/lubes/86.html webcam girl cum] | [http://mean.wtcsites.com/4.html webcam model] | [http://roguish.bravepages.com/32.html free lesbian webcams] | [http://unbars.freecities.com/69.html fat ass girl] | [http://homepage.mac.com/bedlam2/60.html dog insertion] | [http://prowlers.fcpages.com/61.html toronto webcam sex] | [http://homepage.mac.com/lubes/49.html home webcam girls] | [http://icelander.150m.com/84.html ffm anal sex] | [http://honored.ibnsites.com/3.html japanese piss fuck] | [http://homepage.mac.com/creamery2/2.html gilly pee webcam] | [http://homepage.mac.com/traverses1/9.html teen party strip] | [http://clearance.freewebsitehosting.com/53.html free celeb teens] | [http://guardedly.1sweethost.com/55.html porn review reality] | [http://shitted.exactpages.com/95.html two webcam girls]

__NOTOC__